## 19 C.F.R. § 210.1
Applicability of part.

The rules in this part apply to investigations under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and related proceedings. These rules are authorized by sections 333, 335, or 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. §§ 1333, 1335, and 1337) and sections 2 and 1342(d)(1)(B) of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Pub. L. No. 100-418, 102 Stat. 1107 (1988).

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.2
General policy.

It is the policy of the Commission that, to the extent practicable and consistent with requirements of law, all investigations and related proceedings under this part shall be conducted expeditiously. The parties, their attorneys or other representatives, and the presiding administrative law judge shall make every effort at each stage of the investigation or related proceeding to avoid delay.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.3
Definitions.

As used in this part—

Administrative law judge means the person appointed under section 3105 of title 5 of the United States Code who presides over the taking of evidence in an investigation under this part. If the Commission so orders or a section of this part so provides, an administrative law judge also may preside over stages of a related proceeding under this part.

Ancillary proceeding has the same meaning as related proceeding.

Commission investigative attorney means a Commission attorney designated to engage in investigatory activities in an investigation or a related proceeding under this part.

Complainant means a person who has filed a complaint with the Commission under this part, alleging a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

Intervenor means a person who has been granted leave by the Commission to intervene as a party to an investigation or a related proceeding under this part.

Investigation means a formal Commission inquiry instituted to determine whether there is a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. An investigation is instituted upon publication of a notice in the Federal Register. The investigation entails postinstitution adjudication of the complaint. An investigation can also involve the processing of one or more of the following: A motion to amend the complaint and notice of investigation; a motion for temporary relief; a motion to designate “more complicated” the temporary relief stage of the investigation; an interlocutory appeal of an administrative law judge's decision on a particular matter; a motion for sanctions for abuse of process, abuse of discovery, or failure to make or cooperate in discovery, which if granted, would have an impact on the adjudication of the merits of the complaint; a petition for reconsideration of a final Commission determination; a motion for termination of the investigation in whole or part; and procedures undertaken in response to a judgment or judicial order issued in an appeal of a Commission determination or remedial order issued under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

Party means each complainant, respondent, intervenor, or the Office of Unfair Import Investigations.

Proposed intervenor means any person who has filed a motion to intervene in an investigation or a related proceeding under this part.

Proposed respondent means any person named in a complaint filed under this part as allegedly violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

Related proceeding means preinstitution proceedings, sanction proceedings (for the possible issuance of sanctions that would not have a bearing on the adjudication of the merits of a complaint or a motion under this part), bond forfeiture proceedings, proceedings to enforce, modify, or revoke a remedial or consent order, or advisory opinion proceedings.

Respondent means any person named in a notice of investigation issued under this part as allegedly violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

U.S. Customs Service means U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67626, Dec. 30, 1994; 73 FR 38320, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 24363, May 2, 2011; 78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.4
Written submissions; representations; sanctions.

(a) Caption; names of parties. The front page of every written submission filed by a party or a proposed party to an investigation or a related proceeding under this part shall contain a caption setting forth the name of the Commission, the title of the investigation or related proceeding, the docket number or investigation number, if any, assigned to the investigation or related proceeding, and in the case of a complaint, the names of the complainant and all proposed respondents.

(b) Signature. Every pleading, written motion, and other paper of a party or proposed party who is represented by an attorney in an investigation or a related proceeding under this part shall be signed by at least one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name. A party or proposed party who is not represented by an attorney shall sign, or his duly authorized officer or agent shall sign, the pleading, written motion, or other paper. Each paper shall state the signer's address and telephone number, if any. Pleadings, written motions, and other papers need not be under oath or accompanied by an affidavit, except as provided in § 210.12(a)(1), § 210.13(b), § 210.18, § 210.52(d), § 210.59(b), or another section of this part or by order of the administrative law judge or the Commission. If a pleading, motion, or other paper is not signed, it shall be stricken unless it is signed promptly after omission of the signature is called to the attention of the submitter.

(c) Representations. By presenting to the presiding administrative law judge or the Commission (whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating) a pleading, written motion, or other paper, an attorney or unrepresented party or proposed party is certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances—

(1) It is not being presented for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of the investigation or related proceeding;

(2) The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law;

(3) The allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery; and

(4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.

(d) Sanctions. If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond (see paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section and § 210.25), the presiding administrative law judge or the Commission determines that paragraph (c) of this section has been violated, the administrative law judge or the Commission may, subject to the conditions stated below and in § 210.25, impose an appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have violated paragraph (c) or are responsible for the violation. A representation need not be frivolous in its entirety in order for the administrative law judge or the Commission to determine that paragraph (c) has been violated. If any portion of a representation is found to be false, frivolous, misleading, or otherwise in violation of paragraph (c), a sanction may be imposed. In determining whether paragraph (c) has been violated, the administrative law judge or the Commission will consider whether the representation or disputed portion thereof was objectively reasonable under the circumstances.

(1) How initiated —(i) By motion. A motion for sanctions under this section shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the specific conduct alleged to violate paragraph (c). It shall be served as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, but shall not be filed with or presented to the presiding administrative law judge or the Commission unless, within seven days after service of the motion (or such other period as the administrative law judge or the Commission may prescribe), the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. See also § 210.25 (a) through (c). If warranted, the administrative law judge or the Commission may award to the party or proposed party prevailing on the motion the reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred in presenting or opposing the motion. Absent exceptional circumstances, a law firm shall be held jointly responsible for violations committed by its partners, associates, and employees.

(ii) On the administrative law judge's or the Commission's initiative. The administrative law judge or the Commission may enter an order sua sponte describing the specific conduct that appears to violate paragraph (c) of this section and directing an attorney, law firm, party, or proposed party to show cause why it has not violated paragraph (c) with respect thereto.

(2) Nature of sanctions; limitations. A sanction imposed for violation of paragraph (c) of this section shall be limited to what is sufficient to deter repetition of such conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated. Subject to the limitations in paragraphs (d)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section, the sanction may consist of, or include, directives of a nonmonetary nature, an order to pay a penalty, or, if imposed on motion and warranted for effective deterrence, an order directing payment to the movant of some or all of the reasonable attorney's fees and other expenses incurred as a direct result of the violation.

(i) Monetary sanctions shall not be imposed under this section against the United States, the Commission, or a Commission investigative attorney.

(ii) Monetary sanctions may not be awarded against a represented party or proposed party for a violation of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iii) Monetary sanctions may not be imposed on the administrative law judge's or the Commission's initiative unless—

(A) The Commission or the administrative law judge issues an order to show cause before the investigation or related proceeding is terminated, in whole or in relevant part, as to the party or proposed party which is, or whose attorneys are, to be sanctioned; and

(B) Such termination is the result of—

( 1 ) A motion to withdraw the complaint, motion, or petition that was the basis for the investigation or related proceeding;

( 2 ) A settlement agreement;

( 3 ) A consent order agreement; or

( 4 ) An arbitration agreement.

(iv) Monetary sanctions imposed to compensate the Commission for expenses incurred by a Commission investigative attorney or the Commission's Office of Unfair Import Investigations will include reimbursement for some or all costs reasonably incurred as a direct result of the violation, but will not include attorney's fees.

(3) Order. When imposing sanctions, the administrative law judge or the Commission shall describe the conduct determined to constitute a violation of this rule and explain the basis for the sanction imposed. See also § 210.25(d)-(f).

(e) Inapplicability to discovery. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section do not apply to discovery requests, responses, objections, and motions that are subject to provisions of §§ 210.27 through 210.34.

(f) Filing of documents. (1) Written submissions that are addressed to the Commission during an investigation or a related proceeding shall comply with the Commission's Handbook on Filing Procedures, which is issued by and available from the Secretary and posted on the Commission's Electronic Document Information System Web site at https://edis.usitc.gov. Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter and the Handbook on Filing Procedures in the filing of a document may result in the rejection of the document as improperly filed.

(2) A complaint, petition, or request, and supplements and amendments thereto, filed under § 210.8, § 210.75, § 210.76, or § 210.79 shall be filed in paper form. An original and eight (8) true paper copies shall filed. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to the document shall be filed in electronic form on one CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary. Sections 210.8 and 210.12 set out additional requirements for a complaint filed under § 210.8. Additional requirements for a petition or request filed under § 210.75, § 210.76, or § 210.79 are set forth in those sections. Submitted media will be retained by the Commission, except that media may be returned to the submitter if a document is not accepted for filing.

(3) Responses to a complaint, briefs, comments and responses thereto, compliance reports, motions and responses or replies thereto, petitions and replies thereto, prehearing statements, and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law and responses thereto provided for under §§ 210.4(d), 210.13, 210.8, 210.14, 210.15, 210.16, 210.17, 210.18, 210.19, 210.20, 210.21, 210.23, 210.24, 210.25, 210.26, 210.33, 210.34, 210.35, 210.36, 210.38, 210.40, 210.43, 210.45, 210.46, 210.47, 210.50, 210.52, 210.53, 210.57, 210.59, 210.66, 210.70, or 210.71; and submissions filed with the Secretary pursuant to an order of the presiding administrative law judge shall be filed electronically, and true paper copies of such submissions shall be filed by 12 noon, eastern time, on the next business day.

(4) Except for the documents listed in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, all other documents shall be filed electronically, and no paper copies will be required.

(5) If paper copies are required under this section, the required number of paper copies shall be governed by paragraph (f)(6) of this section. A paper copy provided for in this section must be a true copy of the electronic version of the document, i.e., a copy that is identical in all possible respects.

(6) Unless the Commission or this part specifically states otherwise:

(i) Two (2) true paper copies of each submission shall be filed if the investigation or related proceeding is before an administrative law judge; and

(ii) Eight (8) true paper copies of each submission shall be filed if the investigation or related proceeding is before the Commission.

(7)(i) If a complaint, a supplement or amendment to a complaint, a motion for temporary relief, or the documentation supporting a motion for temporary relief contains confidential business information as defined in § 201.6(a) of this chapter, the complainant shall file nonconfidential copies of the complaint, the supplement or amendment to the complaint, the motion for temporary relief, or the documentation supporting the motion for temporary relief concurrently with the requisite confidential copies, as provided in § 210.8(a). A nonconfidential copy of all exhibits, appendices, and attachments to the document shall be filed in electronic form on one CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary, separate from the media used for the confidential version.

(ii)(A) Persons who file the following submissions that contain confidential business information covered by an administrative protective order, or that are the subject of a request for confidential treatment, must file nonconfidential copies and serve them on the other parties to the investigation or related proceeding within 10 calendar days after filing the confidential version with the Commission:

( 1 ) A response to a complaint and all supplements and exhibits thereto;

( 2 ) All submissions relating to a motion to amend the complaint or notice of investigation; and

( 3 ) All submissions addressed to the Commission.

(B) Other sections of this part may require, or the Commission or the administrative law judge may order, the filing and service of nonconfidential copies of other kinds of confidential submissions. If the submitter's ability to prepare a nonconfidential copy is dependent upon receipt of the nonconfidential version of an initial determination, or a Commission order or opinion, or a ruling by the administrative law judge or the Commission as to whether some or all of the information at issue is entitled to confidential treatment, the nonconfidential copies of the submission must be filed within 10 calendar days after service of the Commission or administrative law judge document in question. The time periods for filing specified in this paragraph apply unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise.

(8) The Secretary may provide for exceptions and modifications to the filing requirements set out in this chapter. A person seeking an exception should consult the Handbook on Filing Procedures.

(9) Where to file; date of filing. Documents shall be filed at the Office of the Secretary of the Commission in Washington, DC. Such documents, if properly filed within the hours of operation specified in § 201.3(c), will be deemed to be filed on the date on which they are actually received in the Commission.

(10) Conformity with rules. Each document filed with the Commission for the purpose of initiating any investigation shall be considered properly filed if it conforms with the pertinent rules prescribed in this chapter. Substantial compliance with the pertinent rules may be accepted by the Commission provided good and sufficient reason is stated in the document for inability to comply fully with the pertinent rules.

(11) During any period in which the Commission is closed, deadlines for filing documents electronically and by other means are extended so that documents are due on the first business day after the end of the closure.

(g) Cover Sheet. When making a paper filing, parties must complete the cover sheet online at http://edis.usitc.gov and print out the cover sheet for submission to the Office of the Secretary with the paper filing. The party submitting the cover sheet is responsible for the accuracy of all information contained in the cover sheet, including, but not limited to, the security status and the investigation number, and must comply with applicable limitations on disclosure of confidential information under § 210.5.

(h) Specifications. (1) Each document filed under this chapter shall be double-spaced, clear and legible, except that a document of two pages or less in length need not be double-spaced. All submissions shall be in letter-sized format (8.5 × 11 inches), except copies of documents prepared for another agency or a court (e.g., patent file wrappers or pleadings papers), and single sided. Typed matter shall not exceed 6.5 × 9.5 inches using 11-point or larger type and shall be double-spaced between each line of text using the standard of 6 lines of type per inch. Text and footnotes shall be in the same size type. Quotations more than two lines long in the text or footnotes may be indented and single-spaced. Headings and footnotes may be single-spaced.

(2) The administrative law judge may impose any specifications he deems appropriate for submissions that are addressed to the administrative law judge.

(i) Service. Unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise, every written submission filed by a party or proposed party shall be served on all other parties in the manner specified in § 201.16(b) of this chapter.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994; 59 FR 64286, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67626, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 32443, June 22, 1995; 68 FR 32978, June 3, 2003; 73 FR 38320, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 61944, Oct. 6, 2011; 78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.5
Confidential business information.

(a) Definition and submission. Confidential business information shall be defined and identified in accordance with § 201.6 (a) and (c) of this chapter. Unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or another section of this part states otherwise, confidential business information shall be submitted in accordance with § 201.6(b) of this chapter. In the case of a complaint, any supplement to the complaint, and a motion for temporary relief filed under this part, the number of nonconfidential copies shall be prescribed by § 210.8(a) of this part.

(b) Restrictions on disclosure. Information submitted to the Commission or exchanged among the parties in connection with an investigation or a related proceeding under this part, which is properly designated confidential under paragraph (a) of this section and § 201.6(a) of this chapter, may not be disclosed to anyone other than the following persons without the consent of the submitter:

(1) Persons who are granted access to confidential information under § 210.39(a) or a protective order issued pursuant to § 210.34(a);

(2) An officer or employee of the Commission who is directly concerned with—

(i) Carrying out or maintaining the records of the investigation or related proceeding for which the information was submitted;

(ii) The administration of a bond posted pursuant to subsection (e), (f), or (j) of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930;

(iii) The administration or enforcement of an exclusion order issued pursuant to subsection (d), (e), or (g), a cease and desist order issued pursuant to subsection (f), or a consent order issued pursuant to subsection (c) of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930; or

(iv) Proceedings for the modification or rescission of a temporary or permanent order issued under subsection (d), (e), (f), (g), or (i) of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, or a consent order issued under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930;

(3) An officer or employee of the United States Government who is directly involved in a review conducted pursuant to section 337(j) of the Tariff Act of 1930; or

(4) An officer or employee of the United States Customs Service who is directly involved in administering an exclusion from entry under section 337 (d), (e), or (g) of the Tariff Act of 1930 resulting from the investigation or related proceeding in connection with which the information was submitted.

(c) Transmission of certain records to district court. Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, confidential business information may be transmitted to a district court and be admissible in a civil action, subject to such protective order as the district court determines necessary, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1659.

(d) Confidentiality determinations in preinstitution proceedings. After a complaint is filed under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and before an investigation is instituted by the Commission, confidential business information designated confidential by the supplier shall be submitted in accordance with § 201.6(b) of this chapter. The Secretary shall decide, in accordance with § 201.6(d) of this chapter, whether the information is entitled to confidential treatment. Appeals from the ruling of the Secretary shall be made to the Commission as set forth in § 201.6(e) and (f) of this chapter.

(e) Confidentiality determinations in investigations and other related proceedings. (1) If an investigation is instituted or if a related proceeding is assigned to an administrative law judge, the administrative law judge shall set the ground rules for the designation, submission, and handling of information designated confidential by the submitter. When requested to do so, the administrative law judge shall decide whether information in a document addressed to the administrative law judge, or to be exchanged among the parties while the administrative law judge is presiding, is entitled to confidential treatment. The administrative law judge shall also decide, with respect to all orders, initial determinations, or other documents issued by the administrative law judge, whether information designated confidential by the supplier is entitled to confidential treatment. The supplier of the information or the person seeking the information may, with leave of the administrative law judge, request an appeal to the Commission of the administrative law judge's unfavorable ruling on this issue, under § 210.24(b)(2).

(2) The Commission may continue protective orders issued by the administrative law judge, amend or revoke those orders, or issue new ones. All submissions addressed to the Commission that contain information covered by an existing protective order will be given confidential treatment. (See also § 210.72.) New information that is submitted to the Commission, designated confidential by the supplier, and not covered by an existing protective order must be submitted to the Secretary with a request for confidential treatment in accordance with § 201.6(b) and (c) of this chapter. The Secretary shall decide, in accordance with § 201.6(d) of this chapter, whether the information is entitled to confidential treatment. Appeals from the ruling of the Secretary shall be made to the Commission as provided in § 201.6(e) and (f) of this chapter. The Commission shall decide, with respect to all orders, notices, opinions, and other documents issued by or on behalf of the Commission, whether information designated confidential by the supplier is entitled to confidential treatment.

(f) When the Commission or the administrative law judge issues a confidential version of an order, initial determination, opinion, or other document, the Commission, or the presiding administrative law judge if the administrative law judge has issued the confidential version, shall issue any public version of the document within 30 days, unless good cause exists to extend the deadline. An administrative law judge or the Commission may extend this time by order. Upon request by the Commission, or the administrative law judge if the administrative law judge has issued the confidential version, parties must provide support in the record for their claim of confidentiality, pursuant § 201.6 of this chapter and § 210.4 of this subpart for any proposed redactions that parties may submit to the Commission or the administrative law judge for the preparation of any public version.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67626, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 32444, June 22, 1995; 78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.6
Computation of time, additional hearings, postponements, continuances, and extensions of time.

(a) Unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or this or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise, the computation of time and the granting of additional hearings, postponements, continuances, and extensions of time shall be in accordance with §§ 201.14 and 201.16(d) and (e) of this chapter.

(b) Whenever a party has the right or is required to perform some act or to take some action within a prescribed period after service of a document upon it, and the document was served by mail, the deadline shall be computed by adding to the end of the prescribed period the additional time allotted under § 201.16(d), unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise.

(c) Whenever a party has the right or is required to perform some act or to take some action within a prescribed period after service of a Commission document upon it, and the document was served by express delivery, the deadline shall be computed by adding to the end of the prescribed period the additional time allotted under § 201.16(e), unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise.

[78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.7
Service of process and other documents; publication of notices.

(a) Manner of service. (1) The service of process and all documents issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the administrative law judge—and the service of all documents issued by parties under §§ 210.27 through 210.34 of this part—shall be in accordance with § 201.16 of this chapter, unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or this or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise.

(2) The service of all initial determinations as defined in § 210.42, all cease and desist orders as set forth in § 210.50(a)(1), and all documents containing confidential business information as defined in § 201.6(a), issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the administrative law judge on a private party, shall be effected by serving a copy of the document by express delivery, as defined in § 201.16(e), on the person to be served, on a member of the partnership to be served, on the president, secretary, other executive officer, or member of the board of directors of the corporation, association, or other organization to be served, or, if an attorney represents any of the above in connection with an investigation under this subtitle, by serving a copy by express delivery on such attorney.

(3) Whenever the Commission effects service of documents issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the administrative law judge upon the private parties by overnight delivery, service upon the Office of Unfair Import Investigations shall also be deemed to have occurred by overnight delivery.

(b) Designation of a single attorney or representative for service of process. The service list prepared by the Secretary for each investigation will contain the name and address of no more than one attorney or other representative for each party to the investigation. In the event that two or more attorneys or other persons represent one party to the investigation, the party must select one of their number to be the lead attorney or representative for service of process. The lead attorney or representative for service of process shall state, at the time of the filing of its entry of appearance with the Secretary, that it has been so designated by the party it represents. (Only those persons authorized to receive confidential business information under a protective order issued pursuant to § 210.34(a) are eligible to be included on the service list for documents containing confidential business information.)

(c) Publication of notices. (1) Notice of action by the Commission or an administrative law judge will be published in the Federal Register only as specifically provided in § 201.10, paragraph (c)(2) of this section, by another section in this chapter, or by order of an administrative law judge or the Commission.

(2) When an administrative law judge or the Commission determines to amend or supplement a notice published in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, notice of the amendment will be published in the Federal Register.

[60 FR 53119, Oct. 12, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 13960, Mar. 23, 2007; 73 FR 38320, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.8
Commencement of preinstitution proceedings.

A preinstitution proceeding is commenced by filing with the Secretary a signed original complaint and the requisite number of true copies.

(a)(1) A complaint filed under this section shall be filed in paper form with the Secretary as follows.

(i) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the nonconfidential version of the complaint shall be filed. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the complaint shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary.

(ii) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the confidential version of the complaint shall be filed. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the complaint shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary.

(iii) For each proposed respondent, one true copy of the nonconfidential version of the complaint and one true copy of the confidential version of the complaint, if any, along with one true copy of the nonconfidential exhibits and one true copy of the confidential exhibits shall be filed, and

(iv) For the government of the foreign country in which each proposed respondent is located as indicated in the complaint, one true copy of the nonconfidential version of the complaint shall be filed.

Note to paragraph ( a )(1): The same requirements apply for the filing of a supplement or amendment to the complaint.

(2) If the complainant is seeking temporary relief, the complainant must also file:

(i) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the nonconfidential version of the motion for temporary relief. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the motion shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary.

(ii) An original and eight (8) true paper copies of the confidential version of the motion for temporary relief. All exhibits, appendices, and attachments to this version of the motion shall be filed in electronic form on CD-ROM, DVD, or other portable electronic media approved by the Secretary; and

(iii) For each proposed respondent, one true copy of the nonconfidential version of the motion and one true copy of the confidential version of the motion along with one true copy of the nonconfidential exhibits and one true copy of the confidential exhibits filed with the motion.

Note to paragraph ( a )(2): The same requirements apply for the filing of a supplement or amendment to the complaint or a supplement to the motion for temporary relief.

(b) Provide specific information regarding the public interest. Complainant must file, concurrently with the complaint, a separate statement of public interest, not to exceed five pages, inclusive of attachments, addressing how issuance of the requested relief, i.e., a general exclusion order, a limited exclusion order, and/or a cease and desist order, in this investigation could affect the public health and welfare in the United States, competitive conditions in the United States economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, or United States consumers. If the complainant files a confidential version of its submission on public interest, it shall file a public version of the submission no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the submission. In particular, the submission should:

(1) Explain how the articles potentially subject to the requested remedial orders are used in the United States;

(2) Identify any public health, safety, or welfare concerns relating to the requested remedial orders;

(3) Identify like or directly competitive articles that complainant, its licensees, or third parties make which could replace the subject articles if they were to be excluded;

(4) Indicate whether the complainant, its licensees, and/or third parties have the capacity to replace the volume of articles subject to the requested remedial orders in a commercially reasonable time in the United States; and

(5) State how the requested remedial orders would impact consumers.

(c) Publication of notice of filing. (1) When a complaint is filed, the Secretary to the Commission will publish a notice in the Federal Register inviting comments from the public and proposed respondents on any public interest issues arising from the complaint and potential exclusion and/or cease and desist orders. In response to the notice, members of the public and proposed respondents may provide specific information regarding the public interest in a written submission not to exceed five pages, inclusive of attachments, to the Secretary to the Commission within eight (8) calendar days of publication of notice of the filing of a complaint. Comments that substantively address allegations made in the complaint will not be considered. Members of the public and proposed respondents may address how issuance of the requested exclusion order and/or a cease and desist order in this investigation could affect the public health and welfare in the United States, competitive conditions in the United States economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, or United States consumers. If a member of the public or proposed respondent files a confidential version of its submission, it shall file a public version of the submission no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the submission. Submissions should:

(i) Explain how the articles potentially subject to the requested remedial orders are used in the United States;

(ii) Identify any public health, safety, or welfare concerns relating to the requested remedial orders;

(iii) Identify like or directly competitive articles that complainant, its licensees, or third parties make which could replace the subject articles if they were to be excluded;

(iv) Indicate whether the complainant, its licensees, and/or third parties have the capacity to replace the volume of articles subject to the requested remedial orders in a commercially reasonable time in the United States; and

(v) State how the requested remedial orders would impact consumers.

(2) Complainant may file a reply to any submissions received under paragraph (c)(1) of this section not to exceed five pages, inclusive of attachments, to the Secretary to the Commission within three (3) calendar days following the filing of the submissions. If the complainant files a confidential version of its submission, it shall file a public version of the submission no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the submission.

(d) Upon the initiative of the Commission. The Commission may upon its initiative commence a preinstitution proceeding based upon any alleged violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 32444, June 22, 1995; 68 FR 32978, June 3, 2003; 73 FR 38320, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 61945, Oct. 6, 2011; 76 FR 64808, Oct. 19, 2011; 78 FR 23481, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.9
Action of Commission upon receipt of complaint.

Upon receipt of a complaint alleging violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, the Commission shall take the following actions:

(a) Examination of complaint. The Commission shall examine the complaint for sufficiency and compliance with the applicable sections of this chapter.

(b) Informal investigatory activity. The Commission shall identify sources of relevant information, assure itself of the availability thereof, and, if deemed necessary, prepare subpoenas therefore, and give attention to other preliminary matters.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.10
Institution of investigation.

(a)(1) The Commission shall determine whether the complaint is properly filed and whether an investigation should be instituted on the basis of the complaint. That determination shall be made within 30 days after the complaint is filed, unless—

(i) Exceptional circumstances preclude adherence to a 30-day deadline;

(ii) Additional time is allotted under other sections of this part in connection with the preinstitution processing of a motion by the complainant for temporary relief;

(iii) The complainant requests that the Commission postpone the determination on whether to institute an investigation; or

(iv) The complainant withdraws the complaint.

(2) If exceptional circumstances preclude Commission adherence to the 30-day deadline for determining whether to institute an investigation on the basis of the complaint, the determination will be made as soon after that deadline as possible.

(3) If additional time is allotted in connection with the preinstitution processing of a motion by the complainant for temporary relief, the Commission will determine whether to institute an investigation and provisionally accept the motion within 35 days after the filing of the complaint or by a subsequent deadline computed in accordance with § 210.53(a), § 210.54, § 210.55(b), § 210.57, or § 210.58 as applicable.

(4) If the complainant desires to have the Commission postpone making a determination on whether to institute an investigation in response to the complaint, the complainant must file a written request with the Secretary. If the request is granted, the determination will be rescheduled for whatever date is appropriate in light of the facts.

(5)(i) The complainant may withdraw the complaint as a matter of right at any time before the Commission votes on whether to institute an investigation. To effect such withdrawal, the complainant must file a written notice with the Commission.

(ii) If a motion for temporary relief was filed in addition to the complaint, the motion must be withdrawn along with the complaint, and the complainant must serve copies of the notice of withdrawal on all proposed respondents and on the embassies that were served with copies of the complaint and motion pursuant to § 210.54.

(6) The Commission may determine to institute multiple investigations based on a single complaint where necessary to allow efficient adjudication.

(b)(1) An investigation shall be instituted by the publication of a notice in the Federal Register. The notice will define the scope of the investigation in such plain language as to make explicit what accused products or category of accused products provided in accordance with § 210.12(a)(12) will be the subject of the investigation, and may be amended as provided in § 210.14(b) and (c).

(2) The Commission may order the administrative law judge to take evidence and to issue a recommended determination on the public interest based generally on the submissions of the parties and the public under § 210.8(b) and (c). If the Commission orders the administrative law judge to take evidence with respect to the public interest, the administrative law judge will limit public interest discovery appropriately, with particular consideration for third parties, and will ensure that such discovery will not delay the investigation or be used improperly. Public interest issues will not be within the scope of discovery unless the administrative law judge is specifically ordered by the Commission to take evidence on these issues.

(3) The Commission may order the administrative law judge to issue an initial determination within 100 days of institution of an investigation as provided in § 210.42(a)(3) ruling on a potentially dispositive issue as set forth in the notice of investigation. The presiding administrative law judge is authorized, in accordance with § 210.36, to hold expedited hearings on any such designated issue and also has discretion to stay discovery of any remaining issues during the pendency of the 100-day proceeding.

(c) If the Commission determines not to institute an investigation on the basis of the complaint, the complaint shall be dismissed, and the complainant and all proposed respondents will receive written notice of the Commission's action and the reason(s) therefor.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38321, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 64809, Oct. 19, 2011; 76 FR 71248, Nov. 17, 2011; 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.11
Service of complaint and notice of investigation.

(a)(1) Unless the Commission institutes temporary relief proceedings, upon institution of an investigation, the Commission shall serve:

(i) Copies of the nonconfidential version of the complaint, the nonconfidential exhibits, and the notice of investigation upon each respondent; and

(ii) Copies of the nonconfidential version of the complaint and the notice of investigation upon the embassy in Washington, DC of the country in which each proposed respondent is located as indicated in the Complaint.

(2) If the Commission institutes temporary relief proceedings, upon institution of an investigation, the Commission shall serve:

(i) Copies of the nonconfidential version of the motion for temporary relief, the nonconfidential version of the complaint, and the notice of investigation upon each respondent; and

(ii) A copy of the notice of investigation upon the embassy in Washington, DC of the country in which each proposed respondent is located as indicated in the Complaint.

(3) All respondents named after an investigation has been instituted and the governments of the foreign countries in which they are located as indicated in the complaint shall be served as soon as possible after the respondents are named.

(4) The Commission shall serve copies of the notice of investigation upon the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Customs Service, and such other agencies and departments as the Commission considers appropriate.

(b) With leave from the presiding administrative law judge, a complainant may attempt to effect personal service of the complaint and notice of investigation upon a respondent, if the Secretary's efforts to serve the respondent have been unsuccessful. If the complainant succeeds in serving the respondent by personal service, the complainant must notify the administrative law judge and file proof of such service with the Secretary.

[73 FR 38321, July 7, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.12
The complaint.

(a) Contents of the complaint. In addition to conforming with the requirements of §§ 210.4 and 210.5 of this part, the complaint shall—

(1) Be under oath and signed by the complainant or his duly authorized officer, attorney, or agent, with the name, address, and telephone number of the complainant and any such officer, attorney, or agent given on the first page of the complaint, and include a statement attesting to the representations in § 210.4(c)(1) through (3);

(2) Include a statement of the facts constituting the alleged unfair methods of competition and unfair acts;

(3) Describe specific instances of alleged unlawful importations or sales, and shall provide the Tariff Schedules of the United States item number(s) for importations occurring prior to January 1, 1989, and the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States item number(s) for importations occurring on or after January 1, 1989;

(4) State the name, address, and nature of the business (when such nature is known) of each person alleged to be violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930;

(5) Include a statement as to whether the alleged unfair methods of competition and unfair acts, or the subject matter thereof, are or have been the subject of any court or agency litigation, and, if so, include a brief summary of such litigation;

(6)(i) If the complaint alleges a violation of section 337 based on infringement of a U.S. patent, or a federally registered copyright, trademark, mask work, or vessel hull design, under section 337(a)(1) (B), (C), (D), or (E) of the Tariff Act of 1930, include a statement as to whether an alleged domestic industry exists or is in the process of being established as defined in section 337(a)(2), and include a detailed description of the relevant domestic industry as defined in section 337(a)(3) that allegedly exists or is in the process of being established ( i.e., for the former, facts showing significant/substantial investment and employment, and for the latter, facts showing complainant is actively engaged in the steps leading to the exploitation of its intellectual property rights, and that there is a significant likelihood that an industry will be established in the future), and including the relevant operations of any licensees. Relevant information includes but is not limited to:

(A) Significant investment in plant and equipment;

(B) Significant employment of labor or capital; or

(C) Substantial investment in the exploitation of the subject patent, copyright, trademark, mask work, or vessel hull design, including engineering, research and development, or licensing; or

(ii) If the complaint alleges a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 based on unfair methods of competition and unfair acts in the importation or sale of articles in the United States that have the threat or effect of destroying or substantially injuring an industry in the United States or preventing the establishment of such an industry under section 337(a)(1)(A)(i) or (ii), include a detailed statement as to whether an alleged domestic industry exists or is in the process of being established ( i.e., for the latter, facts showing that there is a significant likelihood that an industry will be established in the future), and include a detailed description of the domestic industry affected, including the relevant operations of any licensees; or

(iii) If the complaint alleges a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 based on unfair methods of competition or unfair acts that have the threat or effect of restraining or monopolizing trade and commerce in the United States under section 337(a)(1)(A)(iii), include a description ofthe trade and commerce affected.

(7) Include a description of the complainant's business and its interests in the relevant domestic industry or the relevant trade and commerce. For every intellectual property based complaint (regardless of the type of intellectual property right involved), include a showing that at least one complainant is the owner or exclusive licensee of the subject intellectual property; and

(8) If the alleged violation involves an unfair method of competition or an unfair act other than those listed in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, state a specific theory and provide corroborating data to support the allegation(s) in the complaint concerning the existence of a threat or effect to destroy or substantially injure a domestic industry, to prevent the establishment of a domestic industry, or to restrain or monopolize trade and commerce in the United States. The information that should ordinarily be provided includes the volume and trend of production, sales, and inventories of the involved domestic article; a description of the facilities and number and type of workers employed in the production of the involved domestic article; profit-and-loss information covering overall operations and operations concerning the involved domestic article; pricing information with respect to the involved domestic article; when available, volume and sales of imports; and other pertinent data.

(9) Include, when a complaint is based upon the infringement of a valid and enforceable U.S. patent—

(i) The identification of each U.S. patent and a certified copy thereof (a legible copy of each such patent will suffice for each required copy of the complaint);

(ii) The identification of the ownership of each involved U.S. patent and a certified copy of each assignment of each such patent (a legible copy thereof will suffice for each required copy of the complaint);

(iii) The identification of each licensee under each involved U.S. patent;

(iv) A copy of each license agreement (if any) for each involved U.S. patent that complainant relies upon to establish its standing to bring the complaint or to support its contention that a domestic industry as defined in section 337(a)(3) exists or is in the process of being established as a result of the domestic activities of one or more licensees;

(v) When known, a list of each foreign patent, each foreign patent application (not already issued as a patent) and each foreign patent application that has been denied, abandoned or withdrawn corresponding to each involved U.S. patent, with an indication of the prosecution status of each such patent application;

(vi) A nontechnical description of the invention of each involved U.S. patent;

(vii) A reference to the specific claims in each involved U.S. patent that allegedly cover the article imported or sold by each person named as violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, or the process under which such article was produced;

(viii) A showing that each person named as violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 is importing or selling the article covered by, or produced under the involved process covered by, the above specific claims of each involved U.S. patent. The complainant shall make such showing by appropriate allegations, and when practicable, by a chart that applies each asserted independent claim of each involved U.S. patent to a representative involved article of each person named as violating section 337 of the Tariff Act or to the process under which such article was produced;

(ix) A showing that an industry in the United States, relating to the articles protected by the patent exists or is in the process of being established. The complainant shall make such showing by appropriate allegations, and when practicable, by a chart that applies an exemplary claim of each involved U.S. patent to a representative involved domestic article or to the process under which such article was produced; and

(x) Drawings, photographs, or other visual representations of both the involved domestic article or process and the involved article of each person named as violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, or of the process utilized in producing the imported article, and, when a chart is furnished under paragraphs (a)(9)(viii) and (a)(9)(ix) of this section, the parts of such drawings, photographs, or other visual representations should be labeled so that they can be read in conjunction with such chart; and

(xi) The expiration date of each patent asserted.

(10) Include, when a complaint is based upon the infringement of a federally registered copyright, trademark, mask work, or vessel hull design—

(i) The identification of each licensee under each involved copyright, trademark, mask work, and vessel hull design;

(ii) A copy of each license agreement (if any) that complainant relies upon to establish its standing to bring the complaint or to support its contention that a domestic industry as defined in section 337(a)(3) exists or is in the process of being established as a result of the domestic activities of one or more licensees.

(11) Contain a request for relief, including a statement as to whether a limited exclusion order, general exclusion order, and/or cease and desist orders are being requested, and if temporary relief is requested under section 337(e) and/or (f) of the Tariff Act of 1930, a motion for such relief shall accompany the complaint as provided in § 210.52(a) or may follow the complaint as provided in § 210.53(a).

(12) Contain a clear statement in plain English of the category of products accused. For example, the caption of the investigation might refer to “certain electronic devices,” but the complaint would provide a further statement to identify the type of products involved in plain English such as mobile devices, tablets, or computers.

(b) Submissions of articles as exhibits. At the time the complaint is filed, if practicable, the complainant shall submit both the domestic article and all imported articles that are the subject of the complaint.

(c) Additional material to accompany each patent-based complaint. There shall accompany the submission of the original of each complaint based upon the alleged unauthorized importation or sale of an article covered by, or produced under a process covered by, the claims of a valid U.S. patent the following:

(1) One certified copy of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office prosecution history for each involved U.S. patent, plus three additional copies thereof; and

(2) Four copies of each patent and applicable pages of each technical reference mentioned in the prosecution history of each involved U.S. patent.

(d) Additional material to accompany each registered trademark-based complaint. There shall accompany the submission of the original of each complaint based upon the alleged unauthorized importation or sale of an article covered by a federally registered trademark, one certified copy of the Federal registration and three additional copies, and one certified copy of the prosecution history for each federally registered trademark.

(e) Additional material to accompany each complaint based on a non-Federally registered trademark. There shall accompany the submission of the original of each complaint based upon the alleged unauthorized importation or sale of an article covered by a non-Federally registered trademark the following:

(1) A detailed and specific description of the alleged trademark;

(2) Information concerning prior attempts to register the alleged trademark; and

(3) Information on the status of current attempts to register the alleged trademark.

(f) Additional material to accompany each copyright-based complaint. There shall accompany the submission of the original of each complaint based upon the alleged unauthorized importation or sale of an article covered by a copyright one certified copy of the Federal registration and three additional copies;

(g) Additional material to accompany each registered mask work-based complaint. There shall accompany the submission of the original of each complaint based upon the alleged unauthorized importation or sale of a semiconductor chip in a manner that constitutes infringement of a Federally registered mask work, one certified copy of the Federal registration and three additional copies;

(h) Additional material to accompany each vessel hull design-based complaint. There shall accompany the submission of the original of each complaint based upon the alleged unauthorized importation or sale of an article covered by a vessel hull design, one certified copy of the Federal registration (including all deposited drawings, photographs, or other pictorial representations of the design), and three additional copies;

(i) Initial disclosures. Complainant shall serve on each respondent represented by counsel who has agreed to be bound by the terms of the protective order one copy of each document submitted with the complaint pursuant to § 210.12(c) through (h) within five days of service of a notice of appearance and agreement to be bound by the terms of the protective order; and

(j) Duty to supplement complaint. Complainant shall supplement the complaint prior to institution of an investigation if complainant obtains information upon the basis of which he knows or reasonably should know that a material legal or factual assertion in the complaint is false or misleading.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994; 59 FR 64286, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38321, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23481, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.13
The response.

(a) Time for response. Except as provided in § 210.59(a) and unless otherwise ordered in the notice of investigation or by the administrative law judge, respondents shall have 20 days from the date of service of the complaint and notice of investigation, by the Commission under § 210.11(a) or by a party under § 210.11(b), within which to file a written response to the complaint and the notice of investigation. When the investigation involves a motion for temporary relief and has not been declared “more complicated,” the response to the complaint and notice of investigation must be filed along with the response to the motion for temporary relief—i.e., within 10 days after service of the complaint, notice of investigation, and the motion for temporary relief by the Commission under § 210.11(a) or by a party under § 210.11(b). (See § 210.59.)

(b) Content of the response. In addition to conforming to the requirements of §§ 210.4 and 210.5 of this part, each response shall be under oath and signed by respondent or his duly authorized officer, attorney, or agent with the name, address, and telephone number of the respondent and any such officer, attorney, or agent given on the first page of the response. Each respondent shall respond to each allegation in the complaint and in the notice of investigation, and shall set forth a concise statement of the facts constituting each ground of defense. There shall be a specific admission, denial, or explanation of each fact alleged in the complaint and notice, or if the respondent is without knowledge of any such fact, a statement to that effect. Allegations of a complaint and notice not thus answered may be deemed to have been admitted. Each response shall include, when available, statistical data on the quantity and value of imports of the involved article. Respondents who are importers must also provide the Harmonized Tariff Schedule item number(s) for importations of the accused imports occurring on or after January 1, 1989, and the Tariff Schedules of the United States item number(s) for importations occurring before January 1, 1989. Each response shall also include a statement concerning the respondent's capacity to produce the subject article and the relative significance of the United States market to its operations. Respondents who are not manufacturing their accused imports shall state the name and address of the supplier(s) of those imports. Affirmative defenses shall be pleaded with as much specificity as possible in the response. When the alleged unfair methods of competition and unfair acts are based upon the claims of a valid U.S. patent, the respondent is encouraged to make the following showing when appropriate:

(1) If it is asserted in defense that the article imported or sold by respondents is not covered by, or produced under a process covered by, the claims of each involved U.S. patent, a showing of such noncoverage for each involved claim in each U.S. patent in question shall be made, which showing may be made by appropriate allegations and, when practicable, by a chart that applies the involved claims of each U.S. patent in question to a representative involved imported article of the respondent or to the process under which such article was produced;

(2) Drawings, photographs, or other visual representations of the involved imported article of respondent or the process utilized in producing such article, and, when a chart is furnished under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the parts of such drawings, photographs, or other visual representations, should be labeled so that they can be read in conjunction with such chart; and

(3) If the claims of any involved U.S. patent are asserted to be invalid or unenforceable, the basis for such assertion, including, when prior art is relied on, a showing of how the prior art renders each claim invalid or unenforceable and a copy of such prior art. For good cause, the presiding administrative law judge may waive any of the substantive requirements imposed under this paragraph or may impose additional requirements.

(c) Submission of article as exhibit. At the time the response is filed, if practicable, the respondent shall submit the accused article imported or sold by that respondent, unless the article has already been submitted by the complainant.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38322, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23481, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.14
Amendments to pleadings and notice; supplemental submissions; counterclaims; consolidation of investigations.

(a) Preinstitution amendments. The complaint may be amended at any time prior to the institution of the investigation. If, prior to institution, the complainant seeks to amend a complaint to add a respondent or to assert an additional unfair act not in the original complaint, including asserting a new patent or patent claim, then the complaint shall be treated as if it had been filed on the date the amendment is filed for purposes of §§ 210.8(b) and (c), 210.9, and 210.10(a).

(b) Postinstitution amendments generally. (1) After an investigation has been instituted, the complaint or notice of investigation may be amended only by leave of the Commission for good cause shown and upon such conditions as are necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest and the rights of the parties to the investigation. A motion for amendment must be made to the presiding administrative law judge. A motion to amend the complaint and notice of investigation to name an additional respondent after institution shall be served on the proposed respondent. If the proposed amendment of the complaint would require amending the notice of investigation, the presiding administrative law judge may grant the motion only by filing with the Commission an initial determination. All other dispositions of such motions shall be by order.

(2) If disposition of the issues in an investigation on the merits will be facilitated, or for other good cause shown, the presiding administrative law judge may allow appropriate amendments to pleadings other than complaints upon such conditions as are necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest and the rights of the parties to the investigation.

(c) Postinstitution amendments to conform to evidence. When issues not raised by the pleadings or notice of investigation, but reasonably within the scope of the pleadings and notice, are considered during the taking of evidence by express or implied consent of the parties, they shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings and notice. Such amendments of the pleadings and notice as may be necessary to make them conform to the evidence and to raise such issues shall be allowed at any time, and shall be effective with respect to all parties who have expressly or impliedly consented.

(d) Supplemental submissions. The administrative law judge may, upon reasonable notice and on such terms as are just, permit service of a supplemental submission setting forth transactions, occurrences, or events that have taken place since the date of the submission sought to be supplemented and that are relevant to any of the issues involved.

(e) Counterclaims. At any time after institution of the investigation, but not later than ten business days before the commencement of the evidentiary hearing, a respondent may file a counterclaim at the Commission in accordance with section 337(c) of the Tariff Act of 1930. Counterclaims shall be filed in a separate document. A respondent who files such a counterclaim shall immediately file a notice of removal with a United States district court in which venue for any of the counterclaims raised by the respondent would exist under 28 U.S.C. 1391.

(f) Respondent submissions on the public interest. When the Commission has ordered the administrative law judge to take evidence with respect to the public interest under § 210.50(b)(1), respondents must submit a statement concerning the public interest, including any response to the issues raised by the complainant pursuant to § 210.8(b) and (c)(2), at the same time that their response to the complaint is due. This submission must be no longer than five pages, inclusive of attachments.

(g) Consolidation of investigations. The Commission may consolidate two or more investigations. If the investigations are currently before the same presiding administrative law judge, he or she may consolidate the investigations. The investigation number in the caption of the consolidated investigation will include the investigation numbers of the investigations being consolidated. The investigation number in which the matter will be proceeding (the lead investigation) will be the first investigation number named in the consolidated caption.

(h) Severance of investigation. The administrative law judge may determine to sever an investigation into two or more investigations at any time prior to or upon thirty days from institution, based upon either a motion by any party or upon the administrative law judge's own judgment that severance is necessary to allow efficient adjudication. The administrative law judge's decision will be in the form of an order. The newly severed investigation(s) shall remain with the same presiding administrative law judge unless reassigned at the discretion of the chief administrative law judge. The severed investigation(s) will be designated with new investigation numbers.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994; 76 FR 64809, Oct. 19, 2011; 78 FR 23481, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.15
Motions.

(a) Presentation and disposition. (1) During the period between the institution of an investigation and the assignment of the investigation to a presiding administrative law judge, all motions shall be addressed to the chief administrative law judge. During the time that an investigation or related proceeding is before an administrative law judge, all motions therein shall be addressed to the administrative law judge.

(2) When an investigation or related proceeding is before the Commission, all motions shall be addressed to the Chairman of the Commission. All such motions shall be filed with the Secretary and shall be served upon each party. Motions may not be filed with the Commission during preinstitution proceedings except for motions for temporary relief pursuant to § 210.53.

(b) Content. All written motions shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired and the grounds therefor.

(c) Responses to motions. Within 10 days after service of any written motions, or within such longer or shorter time as may be designated by the administrative law judge or the Commission, a nonmoving party, or in the instance of a motion to amend the complaint or notice of investigation to name an additional respondent after institution, the proposed respondent, shall respond or he may be deemed to have consented to the granting of the relief asked for in the motion. The moving party shall have no right to reply, except as permitted by the administrative law judge or the Commission.

(d) Motions for extensions. As a matter of discretion, the administrative law judge or the Commission may waive the requirements of this section as to motions for extension of time, and may rule upon such motions ex parte.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 23482, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.16
Default.

(a) Definition of default. (1) A party shall be found in default if it fails to respond to the complaint and notice of investigation in the manner prescribed in § 210.13 or § 210.59(c), or otherwise fails to answer the complaint and notice, and fails to show cause why it should not be found in default.

(2) A party may be found in default as a sanction for abuse of process, under § 210.4(c), or failure to make or cooperate in discovery, under § 210.33(b).

(b) Procedure for determining default. (1)(i) If a respondent has failed to respond or appear in the manner described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a party may file a motion for, or the administrative law judge may issue upon his own initiative, an order directing respondent to show cause why it should not be found in default.

(ii) If the respondent fails to make the necessary showing pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the respondent in default. An administrative law judge's decision denying a motion for a finding of default under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be in the form of an order.

(2) Any party may file a motion for issuance of, or the administrative law judge may issue on his own initiative, an initial determination finding a party in default for abuse of process under § 210.4(c) or failure to make or cooperate in discovery. A motion for a finding of default as a sanction for abuse of process or failure to make or cooperate in discovery shall be granted by initial determination or denied by order.

(3) If a proposed respondent has not filed a response to the complaint and notice of investigation pursuant to § 210.13 or § 210.59(c) of this chapter, the proposed respondent may file a notice of intent to default under this section. The filing of a notice of intent to default does not require the administrative law judge to issue the show-cause order of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the proposed respondent in default upon the filing of a notice of intent to default. Such default will be treated in the same manner as any default under this section.

(4) A party found in default shall be deemed to have waived its right to appear, to be served with documents, and to contest the allegations at issue in the investigation.

(c) Relief against a respondent in default —(1) Types of relief available. After a respondent has been found in default by the Commission, the complainant may file with the Commission a declaration that it is seeking immediate entry of relief against the respondent in default. The facts alleged in the complaint will be presumed to be true with respect to the defaulting respondent. The Commission may issue an exclusion order, a cease and desist order, or both, affecting the defaulting respondent only after considering the effect of such order(s) upon the public health and welfare, competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, and U.S. consumers, and concluding that the order(s) should still be issued in light of the aforementioned public interest factors.

(2) General exclusion orders. In any motion requesting the entry of default or the termination of the investigation with respect to the last remaining respondent in the investigation, the complainant shall declare whether it is seeking a general exclusion order. The Commission may issue a general exclusion order pursuant to section 337(g)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930, regardless of the source or importer of the articles concerned, provided that a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 is established by substantial, reliable, and probative evidence and that the other requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1337(d)(2) are satisfied, and only after considering the aforementioned public interest factors and the requirements of § 210.50(c).

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994; 78 FR 23482, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.17
Other failure to act and default.

Failures to act other than the defaults listed in § 210.16 may provide a basis for the presiding administrative law judge or the Commission to draw adverse inferences and to issue findings of fact, conclusions of law, determinations (including a determination on violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930), and orders that are adverse to the party who fails to act. Such failures include, but are not limited to:

(a) Failure to respond to a motion that materially alters the scope of the investigation or a related proceeding;

(b) Failure to respond to a motion for temporary relief pursuant to § 210.59;

(c) Failure to respond to a motion for summary determination under § 210.18;

(d) Failure to appear at a hearing before the administrative law judge after filing a written response to the complaint or motion for temporary relief, or failure to appear at a hearing before the Commission;

(e) Failure to file a brief or other written submission requested by the administrative law judge or the Commission during an investigation or a related proceeding;

(f) Failure to respond to a petition for review of an initial determination, a petition for reconsideration of an initial determination, or an application for interlocutory review of an administrative law judge's order; and

(g) Failure to participate in temporary relief bond forfeiture proceedings under § 210.70.

(h) Default by notice. If a respondent has filed a response to the complaint or notice of investigation under § 210.13 of this chapter, the respondent may still file a notice of intent to default with the presiding administrative law judge at any time before the filing of the final initial determination. The administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination finding the respondent in default upon the filing of a notice of intent to default. Such default will be treated in the same manner as any other failure to act under this section. The filing of a notice of intent to default does not require the administrative law judge to issue an order to show cause as to why the respondent should not be found in default.

The presiding administrative law judge or the Commission may take action under this rule sua sponte or in response to the motion of a party.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 23482, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.18
Summary determinations.

(a) Motions for summary determinations. Any party may move with any necessary supporting affidavits for a summary determination in its favor upon all or any part of the issues to be determined in the investigation. Counsel or other representatives in support of the complaint may so move at any time after 20 days following the date of service of the complaint and notice instituting the investigation. Any other party or a respondent may so move at any time after the date of publication of the notice of investigation in the Federal Register. Any such motion by any party in connection with the issue of permanent relief, however, must be filed at least 60 days before the date fixed for any hearing provided for in § 210.36(a)(1). Notwithstanding any other rule, the deadline for filing summary determinations shall be computed by counting backward at least 60 days including the first calendar day prior to the date the hearing is scheduled to commence. If the end of the 60 day period falls on a weekend or holiday, the period extends until the end of the next business day. Under exceptional circumstances and upon motion, the presiding administrative law judge may determine that good cause exists to permit a summary determination motion to be filed out of time.

(b) Opposing affidavits; oral argument; time and basis for determination. Any nonmoving party may file opposing affidavits within 10 days after service of the motion for summary determination. The administrative law judge may, in his discretion or at the request of any party, set the matter for oral argument and call for the submission of briefs or memoranda. The determination sought by the moving party shall be rendered if pleadings and any depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a summary determination as a matter of law.

(c) Affidavits. Supporting and opposing affidavits shall be made on personal knowledge, shall set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein. Sworn or certified copies of all papers or parts thereof referred to in an affidavit shall be attached thereto or served therewith. The administrative law judge may permit affidavits to be supplemented or opposed by depositions, answers to interrogatories, or further affidavits. When a motion for summary determination is made and supported as provided in this section, a party opposing the motion may not rest upon the mere allegations or denials of the opposing party's pleading, but the opposing party's response, by affidavits, answers to interrogatories, or as otherwise provided in this section, must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue of fact for the evidentiary hearing under § 210.36(a)(1) or (2). If the opposing party does not so respond, a summary determination, if appropriate, shall be rendered against the opposing party.

(d) Refusal of application for summary determination; continuances and other orders. Should it appear from the affidavits of a party opposing the motion that the party cannot, for reasons stated, present by affidavit facts essential to justify the party's opposition, the administrative law judge may refuse the application for summary determination, or may order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or depositions to be taken or discovery to be had or may make such other order as is appropriate, and a ruling to that effect shall be made a matter of record.

(e) Order establishing facts. If on motion under this section a summary determination is not rendered upon the whole case or for all the relief asked and a hearing is necessary, the administrative law judge, by examining the pleadings and the evidence and by interrogating counsel if necessary, shall if practicable ascertain what material facts exist without substantial controversy and what material facts are actually and in good faith controverted. The administrative law judge shall thereupon make an order specifying the facts that appear without substantial controversy and directing such further proceedings in the investigation as are warranted. The facts so specified shall be deemed established.

(f) Order of summary determination. An order of summary determination shall constitute an initial determination of the administrative law judge.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38322, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.19
Intervention.

Any person desiring to intervene in an investigation or a related proceeding under this part shall make a written motion after institution of the investigation or related proceeding. The motion shall have attached to it a certificate showing that the motion has been served upon each party to the investigation or related proceeding in the manner described in § 201.16(b) of this chapter. Any party may file a response to the motion in accordance with § 210.15(c) of this part, provided that the response is accompanied by a certificate confirming that the response was served on the proposed intervenor and all other parties. The Commission, or the administrative law judge by initial determination, may grant the motion to the extent and upon such terms as may be proper under the circumstances.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.20
Declassification of confidential information.

(a) Any party may move to declassify documents (or portions thereof) that have been designated confidential by the submitter but that do not satisfy the confidentiality criteria set forth in § 201.6(a) of this chapter. All such motions, whether brought at any time during the investigation or after conclusion of the investigation shall be addressed to and ruled upon by the presiding administrative law judge, or if the investigation is not before a presiding administrative law judge, by the chief administrative law judge or such administrative law judge as he may designate.

(b) Following issuance of a public version of the initial determination on whether there is a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or an initial determination that would otherwise terminate the investigation (if adopted by the Commission), the granting of a motion, in whole or part, to declassify information designated confidential shall constitute an initial determination, except as to that information for which no submissions in opposition to declassification have been filed.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.21
Termination of investigations.

(a) Motions for termination. (1) Any party may move at any time prior to the issuance of an initial determination on violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 to terminate an investigation in whole or in part as to any or all respondents, on the basis of withdrawal of the complaint or certain allegations contained therein, or for good cause other than the grounds listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. A motion for termination of an investigation based on withdrawal of the complaint, or for good cause, shall contain a statement that there are no agreements, written or oral, express or implied between the parties concerning the subject matter of the investigation, or if there are any agreements concerning the subject matter of the investigation, all such agreements shall be identified, and if written, a copy shall be filed with the Commission along with the motion. If the agreement contains confidential business information within the meaning of § 201.6(a) of this chapter, at least one copy of the agreement with such information deleted shall accompany the motion, in addition to a copy of the confidential version. On motion for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may limit service of the agreements to the settling parties and the Commission investigative attorney. The presiding administrative law judge may grant the motion in an initial determination upon such terms and conditions as he deems proper.

(2) Any party may move at any time to terminate an investigation in whole or in part as to any or all respondents on the basis of a settlement, a licensing or other agreement, including an agreement to present the matter for arbitration, or a consent order, as provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.

(b) Termination by settlement. (1) An investigation before the Commission may be terminated as to one or more respondents pursuant to section 337(c) of the Tariff Act of 1930 on the basis of a licensing or other settlement agreement. The motion for termination by settlement shall contain copies of the licensing or other settlement agreements, any supplemental agreements, any documents referenced in the motion or attached agreements, and a statement that there are no other agreements, written or oral, express or implied between the parties concerning the subject matter of the investigation. If the licensing or other settlement agreement contains confidential business information within the meaning of § 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the agreement with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. On motion for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may limit the service of the agreements to the settling parties and the Commission investigative attorney.

(2) The motion and agreement(s) shall be certified by the administrative law judge to the Commission with an initial determination if the motion for termination is granted. If the licensing or other agreement or the initial determination contains confidential business information, copies of the agreement and initial determination with confidential business information deleted shall be certified to the Commission simultaneously with the confidential versions of such documents. If the Commission's final disposition of the initial determination results in termination of the investigation in its entirety, a notice will be published in the Federal Register. Termination by settlement need not constitute a determination as to violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

(c) Termination by entry of consent order. An investigation before the Commission may be terminated pursuant to section 337(c) of the Tariff Act of 1930 on the basis of a consent order. Termination by consent order need not constitute a determination as to violation of section 337. A motion for termination by consent order shall contain copies of any licensing or other settlement agreement, any supplemental agreements, and a statement that there are no other agreements, written or oral, express or implied between the parties concerning the subject matter of the investigation. If the licensing or other settlement agreement contains confidential business information within the meaning of § 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the agreement with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. On motion for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may limit service of the agreements to the settling parties and the Commission investigative attorney. If there are no additional agreements, the moving parties shall certify that there are no additional agreements.

(1) Opportunity to submit proposed consent order —(i) Prior to institution of an investigation. Where time, the nature of the proceeding, and the public interest permit, any person being investigated pursuant to section 603 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. § 2482) shall be afforded the opportunity to submit to the Commission a proposal for disposition of the matter under investigation in the form of a consent order stipulation that incorporates a proposed consent order executed by or on behalf of such person and that complies with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) Subsequent to institution of an investigation. In investigations under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, a proposal to terminate by consent order shall be submitted as a motion to the administrative law judge with a stipulation that incorporates a proposed consent order. If the stipulation contains confidential business information within the meaning of § 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the stipulation with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. The stipulation shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section. At any time prior to commencement of the hearing, the motion may be filed by one or more respondents, and may be filed jointly with other parties to the investigation. Upon request and for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may consider such a motion during or after a hearing. The filing of the motion shall not stay proceedings before the administrative law judge unless the administrative law judge so orders. The administrative law judge shall promptly file with the Commission an initial determination regarding the motion for termination if the motion is granted. If the initial determination contains confidential business information, a copy of the initial determination with such information deleted shall be filed with the Commission simultaneously with the filing of the confidential version of the initial determination. Pending disposition by the Commission of a consent order stipulation, a party may not, absent good cause shown, withdraw from the stipulation once it has been submitted pursuant to this section.

(2) Commission disposition of consent order. The Commission, after considering the effect of the settlement by consent order upon the public health and welfare, competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, and U.S. consumers, shall dispose of the initial determination according to the procedures of §§ 210.42 through 210.45. If the Commission's final disposition of the initial determination results in termination of the investigation in its entirety, a notice will be published in the Federal Register. Termination by consent order need not constitute a determination as to violation of section 337. Should the Commission reverse the initial determination, the parties are in no way bound by their proposal in later actions before the Commission.

(3) Contents of consent order stipulation. (i) Every consent order stipulation shall contain, in addition to the proposed consent order, the following:

(A) An admission of all jurisdictional facts;

(B) A statement identifying the asserted patent claims, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice, and whether the stipulation calls for cessation of importation, distribution, sale, or other transfers (other than exportation) of subject articles in the United States and/or specific terms relating to the disposition of existing U.S. inventories of subject articles.

(C) An express waiver of all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the consent order;

(D) A statement that the signatories to the consent order stipulation will cooperate with and will not seek to impede by litigation or other means the Commission's efforts to gather information under subpart I of this part;

(E) A statement that the enforcement, modification, and revocation of the consent order will be carried out pursuant to subpart I of this part, incorporating by reference the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure;

(F) A statement that the signing thereof is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute admission by any respondent that an unfair act has been committed, if applicable; and

(G) A statement that the consent order shall have the same force and effect and may be enforced, modified, or revoked in the same manner as is provided in section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and this part for other Commission actions, and the Commission may require periodic compliance reports pursuant to subpart I of this part to be submitted by the person entering into the consent order stipulation.

(ii) In the case of an intellectual property-based investigation, the consent order stipulation shall also contain—

(A) A statement that if any asserted patent claim, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice claim has expired or is held invalid or unenforceable by a court or agency of competent jurisdiction or if any article has been found or adjudicated not to infringe the asserted right in a final decision, no longer subject to appeal, this Consent Order shall become null and void as to such expired, invalid, or unenforceable claim or as to any adjudicated article;

(B) A statement that each signatory to the stipulation who was a respondent in the investigation will not seek to challenge the validity of the intellectual property right(s), in any administrative or judicial proceeding to enforce the consent order

(4) Contents of consent order. The Commission will not issue consent orders with terms beyond those provided for in this section, and will not issue consent orders that are inconsistent with this section. The consent order shall contain:

(i) A statement of the identity of complainant, the respondent, and the subject articles, and a statement of any allegation in the complaint that the respondents sell for importation, import, or sell after importation the subject articles in violation of section 337 by reason of asserted patent claims, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice;

(ii) A statement that the respondents have executed a consent order stipulation (but the consent order shall not contain the terms of the stipulation);

(iii) A statement that the respondent shall not sell for importation, import, or sell after importation the subject articles, directly or indirectly, and shall not aid, abet, encourage, participate in, or induce the sale for importation, the importation, or the sale after importation except under consent, license from the complainant, or to the extent permitted by the settlement agreement between complainant and respondent;

(iv) A statement, if applicable, regarding the disposition of existing U.S. inventories of the subject articles.

(v) A statement, if applicable, whether the respondent would be ordered to cease and desist from importing and distributing articles covered by the asserted patent claims, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice;

(vi) A statement that respondent shall be precluded from seeking judicial review or otherwise challenging or contesting the validity of the Consent Order;

(vii) A statement that respondent shall cooperate with and shall not seek to impede by litigation or other means the Commission's efforts to gather information under subpart I of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 19 CFR part 210;

(viii) A statement that Respondent and its officers, directors, employees, agents, and any entity or individual acting on its behalf and with its authority shall not seek to challenge the validity or enforceability of any asserted patent claims, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice claim in any administrative or judicial proceeding to enforce the Consent Order;

(ix) A statement that when the patent, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice expires the Consent Order shall become null and void as to such;

(x) A statement that if any asserted patent claim, copyright, trademark, mask work, boat hull design, or unfair trade practice claim is held invalid or unenforceable by a court or agency of competent jurisdiction or if any article has been found or adjudicated not to infringe the asserted right in a final decision, no longer subject to appeal, this Consent Order shall become null and void as to such invalid or unenforceable claim or adjudicated article;

(xi) An admission of all jurisdictional facts; and

(xii) A statement that the investigation is hereby terminated with respect to the respondent; provided, however, that enforcement, modification, or revocation of the Consent Order shall be carried out pursuant to Subpart I of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 19 CFR part 210.

(5) Effect, interpretation, and reporting. The consent order shall have the same force and effect and may be enforced, modified, or revoked in the same manner as is provided in section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and this part for other Commission actions. The Commission will not enforce consent order terms beyond those provided for in this section. The Commission may require periodic compliance reports pursuant to subpart I of this part to be submitted by the person entering into the consent order stipulation.

(d) Termination based upon arbitration agreement. Upon filing of a motion for termination with the administrative law judge or the Commission, a section 337 investigation may be terminated as to one or more respondents pursuant to section 337(c) of the Tariff Act of 1930 on the basis of an agreement between complainant and one or more of the respondents to present the matter for arbitration. The motion and a copy of the arbitration agreement shall be certified by the administrative law judge to the Commission with an initial determination if the motion for termination is granted. If the agreement or the initial determination contains confidential business information, copies of the agreement and initial determination with confidential business information deleted shall be certified to the Commission with the confidential versions of such documents. A notice will be published in the Federal Register if the Commission's final disposition of the initial determination results in termination of the investigation in its entirety. Termination based on an arbitration agreement does not constitute a determination as to violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.

(e) Effect of termination. Termination issued by the administrative law judge shall constitute an initial determination.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 53120, Oct. 12, 1995; 73 FR 38322, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23482, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21160, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.22


[Reserved]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.23
Suspension of investigation.

Any party may move to suspend an investigation under this part, because of the pendency of proceedings before the Secretary of Commerce or the administering authority pursuant to section 337(b)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930. The administrative law judge or the Commission also may raise the issue sua sponte. An administrative law judge's decision granting a motion for suspension shall be in the form of an initial determination.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.24
Interlocutory appeals.

Rulings by the administrative law judge on motions may not be appealed to the Commission prior to the administrative law judge's issuance of an initial determination, except in the following circumstances:

(a) Appeals without leave of the administrative law judge. The Commission may in its discretion entertain interlocutory appeals, except as provided in § 210.64, when a ruling of the administrative law judge:

(1) Requires the disclosure of Commission records or requires the appearance of Government officials pursuant to § 210.32(c)(2); or

(2) Denies an application for intervention under § 210.19. Appeals from such rulings may be sought by filing an application for review, not to exceed 15 pages, with the Commission within five days after service of the administrative law judge's ruling. An answer to the application for review may be filed within five days after service of the application. The application for review should specify the person or party taking the appeal, designate the ruling or part thereof from which appeal is being taken, and specify the reasons and present arguments as to why review is being sought. The Commission may, upon its own motion, enter an order staying the return date of an order issued by the administrative law judge pursuant to § 210.32(c)(2) or may enter an order placing the matter on the Commission's docket for review. Any order placing the matter on the Commission's docket for review will set forth the scope of the review and the issues that will be considered and will make provision for the filing of briefs if deemed appropriate by the Commission.

(b) Appeals with leave of the administrative law judge. (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a) of this section, § 210.64, and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, applications for review of a ruling by an administrative law judge may be allowed only upon request made to the administrative law judge and upon determination by the administrative law judge in writing, with justification in support thereof, that the ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion, and that either an immediate appeal from the ruling may materially advance the ultimate completion of the investigation or subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy.

(2) Applications for review of a ruling by an administrative law judge under § 210.5(e)(1) as to whether information designated confidential by the supplier is entitled to confidential treatment under § 210.5(b) may be allowed only upon request made to the administrative law judge and upon determination by the administrative law judge in writing, with justification in support thereof.

(3) A written application for review under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section shall not exceed 15 pages and may be filed within five days after service of the administrative law judge's determination. An answer to the application for review may be filed within five days after service of the application for review. Thereupon, the Commission may, in its discretion, permit an appeal. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, Commission review, if permitted, shall be confined to the application for review and answer thereto, without oral argument or further briefs.

(c) Investigation not stayed. Application for review under this section shall not stay the investigation before the administrative law judge unless the administrative law judge or the Commission shall so order.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.25
Sanctions.

(a)(1) Any party may file a motion for sanctions for abuse of process under 210.4(d)(1), abuse of discovery under § 210.27(g)(3), failure to make or cooperate in discovery under § 210.33(b) or (c), or violation of a protective order under § 210.34(c). A motion alleging abuse of process should be filed promptly after the requirements of § 210.4(d)(1)(i) have been satisfied. A motion alleging abuse of discovery, failure to make or cooperate in discovery, or violation of a protective order should be filed promptly after the allegedly sanctionable conduct is discovered.

(2) The administrative law judge (when the investigation or related proceeding is before the administrative law judge) or the Commission (when the investigation or related proceeding is before it) also may raise the sanctions issue sua sponte. (See also §§ 210.4(d)(1)(ii), 210.27(g)(3), 210.33(c), and 210.34(c).)

(b) A motion for sanctions shall be addressed to the presiding administrative law judge, if the allegedly sanctionable conduct occurred and is discovered while the administrative law judge is presiding in an investigation or in a related proceeding. During an investigation, the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion shall be in the form of an order, if it is issued before or concurrently with the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of the investigation. In a related proceeding, the administrative law judge's ruling shall be in the form of an order, regardless of the point in time at which the order is issued.

(c) A motion for sanctions shall be addressed to the Commission, if the allegedly sanctionable conduct occurred while the Commission is presiding or is filed after the subject investigation or related proceeding is terminated. The Commission may assign the motion to an administrative law judge for issuance of a recommended determination. The deadlines and procedures that will be followed in processing the recommended determination will be set forth in the Commission order assigning the motion to an administrative law judge.

(d) If an administrative law judge's order concerning sanctions is issued before the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of the investigation, it may be appealed under § 210.24(b)(1) with leave from the administrative law judge, if the requirements of that section are satisfied. If the order is issued concurrently with the initial determination, the order may be appealed by filing a petition meeting the requirements of § 210.43(b). The periods for filing such petitions and responding to the petitions will be specified in the Commission notice issued pursuant to § 210.42(i), if the initial determination has granted a motion for termination of the investigation, or in the Commission notice issued pursuant to § 210.46(a), if the initial determination concerns violation of section 337. The Commission will determine whether to adopt the order after disposition of the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 or termination of the investigation.

(e) If the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion for sanctions is in the form of a recommended determination pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the deadlines and procedures for parties to contest the recommended determination will be set forth in the Commission order assigning the motion to an administrative law judge.

(f) If a motion for sanctions is filed with the administrative law judge during an investigation, he may defer his adjudication of the motion until after he has issued a final initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of investigation. If the administrative law judge defers his adjudication in such a manner, his ruling on the motion for sanctions must be in the form of a recommended determination and shall be issued no later than 30 days after issuance of the Commission's final determination on violation of section 337 or termination of the investigation. To aid the Commission in determining whether to adopt a recommended determination, any party may file written comments with the Commission 14 days after service of the recommended determination. Replies to such comments may be filed within seven days after service of the comments. The Commission will determine whether to adopt the recommended determination after reviewing the parties' arguments and taking any other steps the Commission deems appropriate.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008; 83 FR 21161, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.26
Other motions.

Motions pertaining to discovery shall be filed in accordance with § 210.15 and the pertinent provisions of subpart E of this part (§§ 210.27 through 210.34). Motions pertaining to evidentiary hearings and prehearing conferences shall be filed in accordance with § 210.15 and the pertinent provisions of subpart F of this part (§§ 210.35 through 210.40). Motions for temporary relief shall be filed as provided in subpart H of this part (see §§ 210.52 through 210.57).

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.27
General provisions governing discovery.

(a) Discovery methods. The parties to an investigation may obtain discovery by one or more of the following methods: depositions upon oral examination or written questions; written interrogatories; production of documents or things or permission to enter upon land or other property for inspection or other purposes; and requests for admissions.

(b) Scope of discovery. Regarding the scope of discovery for the temporary relief phase of an investigation, see § 210.61. For the permanent relief phase of an investigation, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the following:

(1) The claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or to the claim or defense of any other party, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things;

(2) The identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter;

(3) The appropriate remedy for a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (see § 210.42(a)(1)(ii)(A)); or

(4) The appropriate bond for the respondents, under section 337(j)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930, during Presidential review of the remedial order (if any) issued by the Commission (see § 210.42(a)(1)(ii)(B)).

It is not grounds for objection that the information sought will be inadmissible at the hearing if the information sought appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. All discovery is subject to the limitations of paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) Specific limitations on electronically stored information. A person need not provide discovery of electronically stored information from sources that the person identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. The party seeking the discovery may file a motion to compel discovery pursuant to § 210.33(a). In response to the motion to compel discovery, or in a motion for a protective order filed pursuant to § 210.34, the person from whom discovery is sought must show that the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. If that showing is made, the administrative law judge may order discovery from such sources if the requesting party shows good cause, considering the limitations found in paragraph (d) of this section. The administrative law judge may specify conditions for the discovery.

(d) General limitations on discovery. In response to a motion made pursuant to §§ 210.33(a) or 210.34 or sua sponte, the administrative law judge must limit by order the frequency or extent of discovery otherwise allowed in this subpart if the administrative law judge determines that:

(1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or can be obtained from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;

(2) The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity to obtain the information by discovery in the investigation;

(3) The responding person has waived the legal position that justified the discovery or has stipulated to the particular facts pertaining to a disputed issue to which the discovery is directed; or

(4) The burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, considering the needs of the investigation, the importance of the discovery in resolving the issues to be decided by the Commission, and matters of public concern.

(e) Claiming privilege or work product protection. (1) When, in response to a discovery request made under this subpart, a person withholds information otherwise discoverable by claiming that the information is privileged or subject to protection as attorney work product, the person must:

(i) Expressly make the claim when responding to a relevant question or request; and

(ii) Within 10 days of making the claim produce to the requester a privilege log that describes the nature of the information not produced or disclosed, in a manner that will enable the requester to assess the claim without revealing the information at issue. The privilege log must separately identify each withheld document, communication, or item, and to the extent possible must specify the following for each entry:

(A) The date the information was created or communicated;

(B) The author(s) or speaker(s);

(C) All recipients;

(D) The employer and position for each author, speaker, or recipient, including whether that person is an attorney or patent agent;

(E) The general subject matter of the information; and

(F) The type of privilege or protection claimed.

(2) If a document produced in discovery is subject to a claim of privilege or of protection as attorney work product, the person making the claim may notify any person that received the document of the claim and the basis for it.

(i) The notice shall identify the information in the document subject to the claim, preferably using a privilege log as defined under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. After being notified, a person that received the document must do the following:

(A) Within 7 days of service of the notice return, sequester, or destroy the specified document and any copies it has;

(B) Not use or disclose the document until the claim is resolved; and

(C) Within 7 days of service of the notice take reasonable steps to retrieve the document if the person disclosed it to others before being notified.

(ii) Within 7 days of service of the notice, the claimant and the parties shall meet and confer in good faith to resolve the claim of privilege or protection. Within 5 days after the conference, a party may file a motion to compel the production of the document and may, in the motion to compel, use a description of the document from the notice produced under this paragraph. In connection with the motion to compel, the party may submit the document in camera for consideration by the administrative law judge. The person that produced the document must preserve the document until the claim of privilege or protection is resolved.

(3) Parties may enter into a written agreement to waive compliance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section for documents, communications, and items created or communicated within a time period specified in the agreement. The administrative law judge may decline to entertain any motion based on information claimed to be subject to the agreement. If information claimed to be subject to the agreement is produced in discovery then the administrative law judge may determine that the produced information is not entitled to privilege or protection.

(4) For good cause, the administrative law judge may order a different period of time for compliance with any requirement of this section. Parties may enter into a written agreement to set a different period of time for compliance with any requirement of this section without approval by the administrative law judge unless the administrative law judge has ordered a different period of time for compliance, in which case the parties' agreement must be approved by the administrative law judge.

(5)(i) The provisions of § 210.27(e)(1) through (4) protect drafts of expert reports, regardless of the form in which the draft is recorded.

(ii) The provisions of § 210.27(e)(1) through (4) protect communications between the party's attorney and expert witnesses concerning trial preparation, regardless of the form of the communications, except to the extent that the communications:

(A) Relate to compensation for the expert's study or testimony;

(B) Identify facts or data that the party's attorney provided and that the expert considered in forming the opinions to be expressed; or

(iii) Identify assumptions that the party's attorney provided and that the expert relied on in forming the opinions to be expressed.

(f) Supplementation of responses. (1) A party who has responded to a request for discovery with a response is under a duty to supplement or correct the response to include information thereafter acquired if ordered by the administrative law judge or the Commission or in the following circumstances: A party is under a duty seasonably to amend a prior response to an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission if the party learns that the response is in some material respect incomplete or incorrect and if the additional or corrective information has not otherwise been made known to the other parties during the discovery process or in writing.

(2) A duty to supplement responses also may be imposed by agreement of the parties, or at any time prior to a hearing through new requests for supplementation of prior responses.

(g) Signing of discovery requests, responses, and objections. (1) The front page of every request for discovery or response or objection thereto shall contain a caption setting forth the name of the Commission, the title of the investigation or related proceeding, and the docket number or investigation number, if any, assigned to the investigation or related proceeding.

(2) Every request for discovery or response or objection thereto made by a party represented by an attorney shall be signed by at least one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name, whose address shall be stated. A party who is not represented by an attorney shall sign the request, response, or objection and shall state the party's address. The signature of the attorney or party constitutes a certification that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief formed after a reasonable inquiry, the request, objection, or response is:

(i) Consistent with § 210.5(a) (if applicable) and other relevant provisions of this chapter, and warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;

(ii) Not interposed for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation; and

(iii) Not unreasonable or unduly burdensome or expensive, given the needs of the case, the discovery already had in the case, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.

If a request, response, or objection is not signed, it shall be stricken unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the party making the request, response, or objection, and a party shall not be obligated to take any action with respect to it until it is signed.

(3) If without substantial justification a request, response, or objection is certified in violation of paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the administrative law judge or the Commission, upon motion or sua sponte under § 210.25 of this part, may impose an appropriate sanction upon the person who made the certification, the party on whose behalf the request, response, or objection was made, or both.

(4) An appropriate sanction may include an order to pay to the other parties the amount of reasonable expenses incurred because of the violation, including a reasonable attorney's fee, to the extent authorized by Rule 26(g) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Monetary sanctions shall not be imposed under this section against the United States, the Commission, or a Commission investigative attorney.

(5) Monetary sanctions may be imposed under this section to reimburse the Commission for expenses incurred by a Commission investigative attorney or the Commission's Office of Unfair Import Investigations. Monetary sanctions will not be imposed under this section to reimburse the Commission for attorney's fees.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 29623, May 21, 2013; 83 FR 21161, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.28
Depositions.

(a) When depositions may be taken. Following publication in the Federal Register of a Commission notice instituting the investigation, any party may take the testimony of any person, including a party, by deposition upon oral examination or written questions. The presiding administrative law judge will determine the permissible dates or deadlines for taking such depositions. Without stipulation of the parties, the complainants as a group may take a maximum of five fact depositions per respondent or no more than 20 fact depositions whichever is greater, the respondents as a group may take a maximum of 20 fact depositions total, and if the Commission investigative attorney is a party, he or she may take a maximum of 10 fact depositions and is permitted to participate in all depositions taken by any parties in the investigation. Each notice for a corporation to designate deponents only counts as one deposition and includes all corporate representatives so designated to respond, and related respondents are treated as one respondent for purposes of determining the number of depositions. The presiding administrative law judge may increase the number of depositions on written motion for good cause shown.

(b) Persons before whom depositions may be taken. Depositions may be taken before a person having power to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the examination is held.

(c) Notice of examination. A party desiring to take the deposition of a person shall give notice in writing to every other party to the investigation. The administrative law judge shall determine the appropriate period for providing such notice. A party upon whom a notice of deposition is served may make objections to a notice of deposition and state the reasons therefor within ten days of service of the notice of deposition. The notice shall state the time and place for taking the deposition and the name and address of each person to be examined, if known, and, if the name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify him or the particular class or group to which he belongs. A notice may provide for the taking of testimony by telephone, but the administrative law judge may, on motion of any party, require that the deposition be taken in the presence of the deponent. The parties may stipulate in writing, or the administrative law judge may upon motion order, that the testimony at a deposition be recorded by other than stenographic means. If a subpoena duces tecum is to be served on the person to be examined, the designation of the materials to be produced as set forth in the subpoena shall be attached to or included in the notice.

(d) Taking of deposition. Each deponent shall be duly sworn, and any adverse party shall have the right to cross-examine. Objections to questions or documents shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objections relied upon. Evidence objected to shall be taken subject to the objections, except that privileged communications and subject matter need not be disclosed. The questions propounded and the answers thereto, together with all objections made, shall be reduced to writing, after which the deposition shall be subscribed by the deponent (unless the parties by stipulation waive signing or the deponent is ill or cannot be found or refuses to sign) and certified by the person before whom the deposition was taken. If the deposition is not subscribed by the deponent, the person administering the oath shall state on the record such fact and the reason therefor. When a deposition is recorded by stenographic means, the stenographer shall certify on the transcript that the witness was sworn in the stenographer's presence and that the transcript is a true record of the testimony of the witness. When a deposition is recorded by other than stenographic means and is thereafter transcribed, the person transcribing it shall certify that the person heard the witness sworn on the recording and that the transcript is a correct writing of the recording. Thereafter, upon payment of reasonable charges therefor, that person shall furnish a copy of the transcript or other recording of the deposition to any party or to the deponent. See paragraph (i) of this section concerning the effect of errors and irregularities in depositions.

(e) Depositions of nonparty officers or employees of the Commission or of other Government agencies. A party desiring to take the deposition of an officer or employee of the Commission other than the Commission investigative attorney, or of an officer or employee of another Government agency, or to obtain documents or other physical exhibits in the custody, control, and possession of such officer or employee, shall proceed by written motion to the administrative law judge for leave to apply for a subpoena under § 210.32(c). Such a motion shall be granted only upon a showing that the information expected to be obtained thereby is within the scope of discovery permitted by § 210.27(b) or § 210.61 and cannot be obtained without undue hardship by alternative means.

(f) Service of deposition transcripts on the Commission staff. The party taking the deposition shall promptly serve one copy of the deposition transcript on the Commission investigative attorney.

(g) Admissibility of depositions. The fact that a deposition is taken and served upon the Commission investigative attorney as provided in this section does not constitute a determination that it is admissible in evidence or that it may be used in the investigation. Only such part of a deposition as is received in evidence at a hearing shall constitute a part of the record in such investigation upon which a determination may be based. Objections may be made at the hearing to receiving in evidence any deposition or part thereof for any reason that would require exclusion of the evidence if the witness were then present and testifying.

(h) Use of depositions. A deposition may be used as evidence against any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had reasonable notice thereof, in accordance with any of the following provisions:

(1) Any deposition may be used by any party for the purpose of contradicting or impeaching the testimony of a deponent as a witness;

(2) The deposition of a party may be used by an adverse party for any purpose;

(3) The deposition of a witness, whether or not a party, may be used by any party for any purposes if the administrative law judge finds—

(i) That the witness is dead; or

(ii) That the witness is out of the United States, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the deposition; or

(iii) That the witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, illness, infirmity, or imprisonment; or

(iv) That the party offering the deposition has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or

(v) Upon application and notice, that such exceptional circumstances exist as to make it desirable in the interest of justice and with due regard to the importance of presenting the oral testimony of witnesses at a hearing, to allow the deposition to be used; or

(vi) Upon agreement of the parties and within the administrative law judge's discretion, the use of designated deposition testimony in lieu of live witness testimony absent the circumstances otherwise enumerated in this paragraph is permitted.

(4) If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, an adverse party may require him to introduce any other part that ought in fairness to be considered with the part introduced, and any party may introduce any other parts.

(i) Effect of errors and irregularities in depositions —(1) As to notice. All errors and irregularities in the notice for taking a deposition are waived unless written objection is promptly served upon the party giving notice.

(2) As to disqualification of person before whom the deposition is to be taken. Objection to taking a deposition because of disqualification of the person before whom it is to be taken is waived unless made before the taking of the deposition begins or as soon thereafter as the disqualification becomes known or could be discovered with reasonable diligence.

(3) As to taking of depositions. (i) Objections to the competency of a witness or the competency, relevancy, or materiality of testimony are not waived by failure to make them before or during the deposition, unless the ground of the objection is one which might have been obviated or removed if presented at that time.

(ii) Errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form of the questions or answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of parties, and errors of any kind which might be obviated, removed, or cured if promptly presented, are waived unless seasonable objection thereto is made at the taking of the deposition.

(iii) Objections to the form of written questions submitted under this section are waived unless served in writing upon the party propounding them. The presiding administrative law judge shall set the deadline for service of such objections.

(4) As to completion and return of deposition. Errors and irregularities in the manner in which the testimony is transcribed or the deposition is prepared, signed, certified, sealed, indorsed, transmitted, served, or otherwise dealt with by the person before whom it is taken are waived unless a motion to suppress the deposition or some part thereof is made with reasonable promptness after such defect is, or with due diligence might have been, ascertained.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23483, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21161, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.29
Interrogatories.

(a) Scope; use at hearing. Any party may serve upon any other party written interrogatories to be answered by the party served. Interrogatories may relate to any matters that can be inquired into under § 210.27(b) or § 210.61, and the answers may be used to the extent permitted by the rules of evidence. Absent stipulation of the parties, any party may serve upon any other party written interrogatories not exceeding 175 in number including all discrete subparts. Related respondents are treated as one entity. The presiding administrative law judge may increase the number of interrogatories on written motion for good cause shown.

(b) Procedure. (1) Interrogatories may be served upon any party after the date of publication in the Federal Register of the notice of investigation.

(2) Parties answering interrogatories shall repeat the interrogatories being answered immediately preceding the answers. Each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully in writing under oath, unless it is objected to, in which event the reasons for objection shall be stated in lieu of an answer. The answers are to be signed by the person making them, and the objections are to be signed by the attorney making them. The party upon whom the interrogatories have been served shall serve a copy of the answers and objections, if any, within ten days of service of the interrogatories or within the time specified by the administrative law judge. The party submitting the interrogatories may move for an order under § 210.33(a) with respect to any objection to or other failure to answer an interrogatory.

(3) An interrogatory otherwise proper is not necessarily objectionable merely because an answer to the interrogatory involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the application of law to fact, but the administrative law judge may order that such an interrogatory need not be answered until after designated discovery has been completed or until a prehearing conference or a later time.

(c) Option to produce records. When the answer to an interrogatory may be derived or ascertained from the records of the party upon whom the interrogatory has been served or from an examination, audit, or inspection of such records, or from a compilation, abstract, or summary based thereon, and the burden of deriving or ascertaining the answer is substantially the same for the party serving the interrogatory as for the party served, it is a sufficient answer to such interrogatory to specify the records from which the answer may be derived or ascertained and to afford to the party serving the interrogatory reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect such records and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or summaries. The specifications provided shall include sufficient detail to permit the interrogating party to locate and to identify, as readily as can the party served, the documents from which the answer may be ascertained.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23484, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.30
Requests for production of documents and things and entry upon land.

(a) Scope. Any party may serve on any other party a request:

(1) To produce and permit the party making the request, or someone acting on his behalf, to inspect and copy any designated documents (including writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, and other data compilations from which information can be obtained), or to inspect and copy, test, or sample any tangible things that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served; or

(2) To permit entry upon designated land or other property in the possession or control of the party upon whom the request is served for the purpose of inspecting and measuring, surveying, photographing, testing, or sampling the property or any designated object or operation thereon, within the scope of § 210.27(b).

(b) Procedure. (1) The request may be served upon any party after the date of publication in the Federal Register of the notice of investigation. The request shall set forth the items to be inspected, either by individual item or by category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity. The request shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making the inspection and performing the related acts.

(2) The party upon whom the request is served shall serve a written response within 10 days or the time specified by the administrative law judge. The response shall state, with respect to each item or category, that inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested, unless the request is objected to, in which event the reasons for objection shall be stated. If objection is made to part of any item or category, the part shall be specified. The party submitting the request may move for an order under § 210.33(a) with respect to any objection to or other failure to respond to the request or any part thereof, or any failure to permit inspection as requested. A party who produces documents for inspection shall produce them as they are kept in the usual course of business or shall organize and label them to correspond to the categories in the request.

(c) Persons not parties. This section does not preclude issuance of an order against a person not a party to permit entry upon land.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.31
Requests for admission.

(a) Form, content, and service of request for admission. Any party may serve on any other party a written request for admission of the truth of any matters relevant to the investigation and set forth in the request that relate to statements or opinions of fact or of the application of law to fact, including the genuineness of any documents described in the request. Copies of documents shall be served with the request unless they have been otherwise furnished or are known to be, and in the request are stated as being, in the possession of the other party. Each matter as to which an admission is requested shall be separately set forth. The request may be served upon a party whose complaint is the basis for the investigation after the date of publication in the Federal Register of the notice of investigation. The administrative law judge will determine the period within which a party may serve a request upon other parties.

(b) Answers and objections to requests for admissions. A party answering a request for admission shall repeat the request for admission immediately preceding his answer. The matter may be deemed admitted unless, within 10 days or the period specified by the administrative law judge, the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission a sworn written answer or objection addressed to the matter. If objection is made, the reason therefor shall be stated. The answer shall specifically deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission, and when good faith requires that a party qualify his answer or deny only a part of the matter as to which an admission is requested, he shall specify so much of it as is true and qualify or deny the remainder. An answering party may not give lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny unless he states that he has made reasonable inquiry and that the information known to or readily obtainable by him is insufficient to enable him to admit or deny. A party who considers that a matter as to which an admission has been requested presents a genuine issue for a hearing may not object to the request on that ground alone; he may deny the matter or set forth reasons why he cannot admit or deny it.

(c) Sufficiency of answers. The party who has requested the admissions may move to determine the sufficiency of the answers or objections. Unless the objecting party sustains his burden of showing that the objection is justified, the administrative law judge shall order that an answer be served. If the administrative law judge determines that an answer does not comply with the requirements of this section, he may order either that the matter is admitted or that an amended answer be served. The administrative law judge may, in lieu of these orders, determine that final disposition of the request be made at a prehearing conference or at a designated time prior to a hearing under this part.

(d) Effect of admissions; withdrawal or amendment of admission. Any matter admitted under this section may be conclusively established unless the administrative law judge on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of the admission. The administrative law judge may permit withdrawal or amendment when the presentation of the issues of the investigation will be subserved thereby and the party who obtained the admission fails to satisfy the administrative law judge that withdrawal or amendment will prejudice him in maintaining his position on the issue of the investigation. Any admission made by a party under this section is for the purpose of the pending investigation and any related proceeding as defined in § 210.3 of this chapter.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.32
Subpoenas.

(a) Application for issuance of a subpoena —(1) Subpoena ad testificandum. An application for issuance of a subpoena requiring a person to appear and depose or testify at the taking of a deposition or at a hearing shall be made to the administrative law judge.

(2) Subpoena duces tecum. An application for issuance of a subpoena requiring a person to appear and depose or testify and to produce specified documents, papers, books, or other physical exhibits at the taking of a deposition, at a prehearing conference, at a hearing, or under any other circumstances, shall be made in writing to the administrative law judge and shall specify the material to be produced as precisely as possible, showing the general relevancy of the material and the reasonableness of the scope of the subpoena.

(3) The administrative law judge shall rule on all applications filed under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and may issue subpoenas when warranted.

(b) Use of subpoena for discovery. Subpoenas may be used by any party for purposes of discovery or for obtaining documents, papers, books or other physical exhibits for use in evidence, or for both purposes. When used for discovery purposes, a subpoena may require a person to produce and permit the inspection and copying of nonprivileged documents, papers, books, or other physical exhibits that constitute or contain evidence relevant to the subject matter involved and that are in the possession, custody, or control of such person.

(c) Application for subpoenas for nonparty Commission records or personnel or for records and personnel of other Government agencies —(1) Procedure. An application for issuance of a subpoena requiring the production of nonparty documents, papers, books, physical exhibits, or other material in the records of the Commission, or requiring the production of records or personnel of other Government agencies shall specify as precisely as possible the material to be produced, the nature of the information to be disclosed, or the expected testimony of the official or employee, and shall contain a statement showing the general relevancy of the material, information, or testimony and the reasonableness of the scope of the application, together with a showing that such material, information, or testimony or their substantial equivalent could not be obtained without undue hardship or by alternative means.

(2) Ruling. Such applications shall be ruled upon by the administrative law judge, and he may issue such subpoenas when warranted. To the extent that the motion is granted, the administrative law judge shall provide such terms and conditions for the production of the material, the disclosure of the information, or the appearance of the official or employee as may appear necessary and appropriate for the protection of the public interest.

(3) Application for subpoena grounded upon the Freedom of Information Act. No application for a subpoena for production of documents grounded upon the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. § 552) shall be entertained by the administrative law judge.

(d) Objections and motions to quash. (1) Any objection to a subpoena shall be served in writing on the party or attorney designated in the subpoena within the later of 10 days after receipt of the subpoena or within such time as the administrative law judge may allow. If an objection is made, the party that requested the subpoena may move for a request for judicial enforcement upon reasonable notice to other parties or as otherwise provided by the administrative law judge who issued the subpoena.

(2) Any motion to quash a subpoena shall be filed within the later of 10 days after receipt of the subpoena or within such time as the administrative law judge may allow.

(e) Ex parte rulings on applications for subpoenas. Applications for the issuance of the subpoenas pursuant to the provisions of this section may be made ex parte, and, if so made, such applications and rulings thereon shall remain ex parte unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(f) Witness fees —(1) Deponents and witnesses. Any person compelled to appear in person to depose or testify in response to a subpoena shall be paid the same fees and mileage as are paid to witnesses with respect to proceedings in the courts of the United States; provided, that salaried employees of the United States summoned to depose or testify as to matters related to their public employment, irrespective of the party at whose instance they are summoned, shall be paid in accordance with the applicable Federal regulations.

(2) Responsibility. The fees and mileage referred to in paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be paid by the party at whose instance deponents or witnesses appear. Fees due under this paragraph shall be tendered no later than the date for compliance with the subpoena issued under this section. Failure to timely tender fees under this paragraph shall not invalidate any subpoena issued under this section.

(g) Obtaining judicial enforcement. In order to obtain judicial enforcement of a subpoena issued under paragraphs (a)(3) or (c)(2) of this section, the administrative law judge shall certify to the Commission, on motion or sua sponte, a request for such enforcement. The request shall be accompanied by copies of relevant papers and a written report from the administrative law judge concerning the purpose, relevance, and reasonableness of the subpoena. If the request, relevant papers, or written report contain confidential business information, the administrative law judge shall certify nonconfidential copies along with the confidential versions. The Commission will subsequently issue a notice stating whether it has granted the request and authorized its Office of the General Counsel to seek such enforcement.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38233, July 7, 2008; 83 FR 21161, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.33
Failure to make or cooperate in discovery; sanctions.

(a) Motion for order compelling discovery. A party may apply to the administrative law judge for an order compelling discovery upon reasonable notice to other parties and all persons affected thereby.

(b) Non-monetary sanctions for failure to comply with an order compelling discovery. If a party or an officer or agent of a party fails to comply with an order including, but not limited to, an order for the taking of a deposition or the production of documents, an order to answer interrogatories, an order issued pursuant to a request for admissions, or an order to comply with a subpoena, the administrative law judge, for the purpose of permitting resolution of relevant issues and disposition of the investigation without unnecessary delay despite the failure to comply, may take such action in regard thereto as is just, including, but not limited to the following:

(1) Infer that the admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have been adverse to the party;

(2) Rule that for the purposes of the investigation the matter or matters concerning the order or subpoena issued be taken as established adversely to the party;

(3) Rule that the party may not introduce into evidence or otherwise rely upon testimony by the party, officer, or agent, or documents, or other material in support of his position in the investigation;

(4) Rule that the party may not be heard to object to introduction and use of secondary evidence to show what the withheld admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have shown;

(5) Rule that a motion or other submission by the party concerning the order or subpoena issued be stricken or rule by initial determination that a determination in the investigation be rendered against the party, or both; or

(6) Order any other non-monetary sanction available under Rule 37(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Any such action may be taken by written or oral order issued in the course of the investigation or by inclusion in the initial determination of the administrative law judge. It shall be the duty of the parties to seek, and that of the administrative law judge to grant, such of the foregoing means of relief or other appropriate relief as may be sufficient to compensate for the lack of withheld testimony, documents, or other evidence. If, in the administrative law judge's opinion such relief would not be sufficient, the administrative law judge shall certify to the Commission a request that court enforcement of the subpoena or other discovery order be sought.

(c) Monetary sanctions for failure to make or cooperate in discovery. (1) If a party or an officer, director, or managing agent of the party or person designated to testify on behalf of a party fails to obey an order to provide or permit discovery, the administrative law judge or the Commission may make such orders in regard to the failure as are just. In lieu of or in addition to taking action listed in paragraph (b) of this section and to the extent provided in Rule 37(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the administrative law judge or the Commission, upon motion or sua sponte under § 210.25, may require the party failing to obey the order or the attorney advising that party or both to pay reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, caused by the failure, unless the administrative law judge or the Commission finds that the failure was substantially justified or that other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust. Monetary sanctions shall not be imposed under this section against the United States, the Commission, or a Commission investigative attorney.

(2) Monetary sanctions may be imposed under this section to reimburse the Commission for expenses incurred by a Commission investigative attorney or the Commission's Office of Unfair Import Investigations. Monetary sanctions will not be imposed under this section to reimburse the Commission for attorney's fees.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.34
Protective orders; reporting requirement; sanctions and other actions.

(a) Issuance of protective order. Upon motion by a party or by the person from whom discovery is sought or by the administrative law judge on his own initiative, and for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may make any order that may appear necessary and appropriate for the protection of the public interest or that justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:

(1) That discovery not be had;

(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;

(3) That discovery may be had only by a method of discovery other than that selected by the party seeking discovery;

(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;

(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the administrative law judge;

(6) That a deposition, after being sealed, be opened only by order of the Commission or the administrative law judge;

(7) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; and

(8) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the Commission or the administrative law judge. If the motion for a protective order is denied, in whole or in part, the Commission or the administrative law judge may, on such terms and conditions as are just, order that any party or person provide or permit discovery. The Commission also may, upon motion or sua sponte, issue protective orders or may continue or amend a protective order issued by the administrative law judge.

(b) Unauthorized disclosure, loss, or theft of information. If confidential business information submitted in accordance with the terms of a protective order is disclosed to any person other than in a manner authorized by the protective order, lost, or stolen, the party responsible for the disclosure, or subject to the loss or theft, must immediately bring all pertinent facts relating to such incident to the attention of the submitter of the information and the administrative law judge or the Commission, and, without prejudice to other rights and remedies of the submitter of the information, make every effort to prevent further mishandling of such information by the party or the recipient of such information.

(c) Violation of protective order. (1) The issue of whether sanctions should be imposed may be raised on a motion by a party, the administrative law judge's own motion, or the Commission's own initiative in accordance with § 210.25(a)(2). Parties, including the party that identifies an alleged breach or makes a motion for sanctions, and the Commission shall treat the identity of the alleged breacher as confidential business information unless the Commission issues a public sanction. The identity of the alleged breacher means the name of any individual against whom allegations are made. The Commission and the administrative law judge may permit the parties to file written submissions or present oral argument on the issues of the alleged violation of the protective order and sanctions.

(2) If the breach occurs while the investigation is before an administrative law judge, any determination on sanctions of the type enumerated in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section shall be in the form of a recommended determination. The Commission may then consider both the recommended determination and any related orders in making a determination on sanctions. When the motion is addressed to the administrative law judge for sanctions of the type enumerated in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, he shall grant or deny a motion by issuing an order.

(3) Any individual who has agreed to be bound by the terms of a protective order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and who is determined to have violated the terms of the protective order, may be subject to one or more of the following:

(i) An official reprimand by the Commission;

(ii) Disqualification from or limitation of further participation in a pending investigation;

(iii) Temporary or permanent disqualification from practicing in any capacity before the Commission pursuant to § 201.15(a) of this chapter;

(iv) Referral of the facts underlying the violation to the appropriate licensing authority in the jurisdiction in which the individual is licensed to practice;

(v) Sanctions of the sort enumerated in § 210.33(b), or such other action as may be appropriate.

(d) Reporting requirement. Each person who is subject to a protective order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall report in writing to the Commission immediately upon learning that confidential business information disclosed to him or her pursuant to the protective order is the subject of:

(1) A subpoena;

(2) A court or an administrative order (other than an order of a court reviewing a Commission decision);

(3) A discovery request;

(4) An agreement; or

(5) Any other written request, if the request or order seeks disclosure, by him or any other person, of the subject confidential business information to a person who is not, or may not be, permitted access to that information pursuant to either a Commission protective order or § 210.5(b).

Note to paragraph ( d ): This reporting requirement applies only to requests and orders for disclosure made for use of confidential business information in non-Commission proceedings.

(e) Sanctions and other actions. After providing notice and an opportunity to comment, the Commission may impose a sanction upon any person who willfully fails to comply with paragraph (d) of this section, or it may take other action.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23484, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21161, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.35
Prehearing conferences.

(a) When appropriate. The administrative law judge in any investigation may direct counsel or other representatives for all parties to meet with him for one or more conferences to consider any or all of the following:

(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;

(2) Negotiation, compromise, or settlement of the case, in whole or in part;

(3) Scope of the hearing;

(4) Necessity or desirability of amendments to pleadings subject, however, to the provisions of § 210.14 (b) and (c);

(5) Stipulations and admissions of either fact or the content and authenticity of documents;

(6) Expedition in the discovery and presentation of evidence including, but not limited to, restriction of the number of expert, economic, or technical witnesses; and

(7) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly and expeditious disposition of the investigation including disclosure of the names of witnesses and the exchange of documents or other physical exhibits that will be introduced in evidence in the course of the hearing.

(b) Subpoenas. Prehearing conferences may be convened for the purpose of accepting returns on subpoenas duces tecum issued pursuant to § 210.32(a)(3).

(c) Reporting. In the discretion of the administrative law judge, prehearing conferences may or may not be stenographically reported and may or may not be public.

(d) Order. The administrative law judge may enter in the record an order that recites the results of the conference. Such order shall include the administrative law judge's rulings upon matters considered at the conference, together with appropriate direction to the parties. The administrative law judge's order shall control the subsequent course of the hearing, unless the administrative law judge modifies the order.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38324, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.36
General provisions for hearings.

(a) Purpose of hearings. (1) An opportunity for a hearing shall be provided in each investigation under this part, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. At the hearing, the presiding administrative law judge will take evidence and hear argument for the purpose of determining whether there is a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, and for the purpose of making findings and recommendations, as described in § 210.42(a)(1)(ii), concerning the appropriate remedy and the amount of the bond to be posted by respondents during Presidential review of the Commission's action, under section 337(j) of the Tariff Act.

(2) An opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act shall also be provided in connection with every motion for temporary relief filed under this part.

(b) Public hearings. All hearings in investigations under this part shall be public unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(c) Expedition. Hearings shall proceed with all reasonable expedition, and, insofar as practicable, shall be held at one place, continuing until completed unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(d) Rights of the parties. Every hearing under this section shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act (i.e., 5 U.S.C. §§ 554 through 556). Hence, every party shall have the right of adequate notice, cross-examination, presentation of evidence, objection, motion, argument, and all other rights essential to a fair hearing.

(e) Presiding official. An administrative law judge shall preside over each hearing unless the Commission shall otherwise order.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.37
Evidence.

(a) Burden of proof. The proponent of any factual proposition shall be required to sustain the burden of proof with respect thereto.

(b) Admissibility. Relevant, material, and reliable evidence shall be admitted. Irrelevant, immaterial, unreliable, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. Immaterial or irrelevant parts of an admissible document shall be segregated and excluded as far as practicable.

(c) Information obtained in investigations. Any documents, papers, books, physical exhibits, or other materials or information obtained by the Commission under any of its powers may be disclosed by the Commission investigative attorney when necessary in connection with investigations and may be offered in evidence by the Commission investigative attorney.

(d) Official notice. When any decision of the administrative law judge rests, in whole or in part, upon the taking of official notice of a material fact not appearing in evidence of record, opportunity to disprove such noticed fact shall be granted any party making timely motion therefor.

(e) Objections. Objections to evidence shall be made in timely fashion and shall briefly state the grounds relied upon. Rulings on all objections shall appear on the record.

(f) Exceptions. Formal exception to an adverse ruling is not required.

(g) Excluded evidence. When an objection to a question propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining party may make a specific offer of what he expects to prove by the answer of the witness, or the administrative law judge may in his discretion receive and report the evidence in full. Rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, shall be retained with the record so as to be available for consideration by any reviewing authority.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.38
Record.

(a) Definition of the record. The record shall consist of all pleadings, the notice of investigation, motions and responses, all briefs and written statements, and other documents and things properly filed with the Secretary, in addition to all orders, notices, and initial determinations of the administrative law judge, orders and notices of the Commission, hearing and conference transcripts, evidence admitted into the record (including physical exhibits), and any other items certified into the record by the administrative law judge or the Commission.

(b) Reporting and transcription. Hearings shall be reported and transcribed by the official reporter of the Commission under the supervision of the administrative law judge, and the transcript shall be a part of the record.

(c) Corrections. Changes in the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance. A motion to correct a transcript shall be addressed to the administrative law judge, who may order that the transcript be changed to reflect such corrections as are warranted, after consideration of any objections that may be made. Such corrections shall be made by the official reporter by furnishing substitute typed pages, under the usual certificate of the reporter, for insertion in the transcript. The original uncorrected pages shall be retained in the files of the Commission.

(d) Certification of record. The record, including all physical exhibits entered into evidence or such photographic reproductions thereof as the administrative law judge approves, shall be certified to the Commission by the administrative law judge upon his filing of an initial determination or at such earlier time as the Commission may order.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38324, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.39
In camera treatment of confidential information.

(a) Definition. Except as hereinafter provided and consistent with §§ 210.5 and 210.34, confidential documents and testimony made subject to protective orders or orders granting in camera treatment are not made part of the public record and are kept confidential in an in camera record. Only the persons identified in a protective order, persons identified in § 210.5(b), and court personnel concerned with judicial review shall have access to confidential information in the in camera record. The right of the administrative law judge and the Commission to disclose confidential data under a protective order (pursuant to § 210.34) to the extent necessary for the proper disposition of each proceeding is specifically reserved.

(b) Transmission of certain Commission records to district court. (1) In a civil action involving parties that are also parties to a proceeding before the Commission under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, at the request of a party to a civil action that is also a respondent in the proceeding before the Commission, the district court may stay, until the determination of the Commission becomes final, proceedings in the civil action with respect to any claim that involves the same issues involved in the proceeding before the Commission under certain conditions. If such a stay is ordered by the district court, after the determination of the Commission becomes final and the stay is dissolved, the Commission shall certify to the district court such portions of the record of its proceeding as the district court may request. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the in camera record may be transmitted to a district court and be admissible in a civil action, subject to such protective order as the district court determines necessary, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1659.

(2) To facilitate timely compliance with any court order requiring the Commission to transmit all or part of the record of its section 337 proceedings to the court, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a party that requests the court to issue an order staying the civil action or an order dissolving the stay and directing the Commission to transmit all or part of the record to the court must file written notice of the issuance or dissolution of a stay with the Commission Secretary within 10 days of the issuance or dissolution of a stay by the district court.

(c) In camera treatment of documents and testimony. The administrative law judge shall have authority to order documents or oral testimony offered in evidence, whether admitted or rejected, to be placed in camera.

(d) Part of confidential record. In camera documents and testimony shall constitute a part of the confidential record of the Commission.

(e) References to in camera information. In submitting proposed findings, briefs, or other papers, counsel for all parties shall make an attempt in good faith to refrain from disclosing the specific details of in camera documents and testimony. This shall not preclude references in such proposed findings, briefs, or other papers to such documents or testimony including generalized statements based on their contents. To the extent that counsel consider it necessary to include specific details of in camera data in their presentations, such data shall be incorporated in separate proposed findings, briefs, or other papers marked “Business Confidential,” which shall be placed in camera and become a part of the confidential record.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67627, Dec. 30, 1994; 73 FR 38324, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.40
Proposed findings and conclusions and briefs.

At the time a motion for summary determination under § 210.18(a) or a motion for termination under § 210.21(a) is made, or when it is found that a party is in default under § 210.16, or at the close of the reception of evidence in any hearing held pursuant to this part (except as provided in § 210.63), or within a reasonable time thereafter fixed by the administrative law judge, any party may file proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, together with reasons therefor. When appropriate, briefs in support of the proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law may be filed with the administrative law judge for his consideration. Such proposals and briefs shall be in writing, shall be served upon all parties in accordance with § 210.4(g), and shall contain adequate references to the record and the authorities on which the submitter is relying.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.41
Termination of investigation.

Except as provided in § 210.21 (b)(2), (c), and (d), an order of termination issued by the Commission shall constitute a determination of the Commission under § 210.45(c). The Commission shall publish in the Federal Register notice of each Commission order that terminates an investigation in its entirety.

[60 FR 53120, Oct. 12, 1995]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.42
Initial determinations.

(a)(1)(i) On issues concerning violation of section 337. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, the administrative law judge shall certify the record to the Commission and shall file an initial determination on whether there is a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in an original investigation no later than 4 months before the target date set pursuant to § 210.51(a)(1).

(ii) Recommended determination on issues concerning permanent relief, bonding, and the public interest. Unless the Commission orders otherwise, within 14 days after issuance of the initial determination on violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, the administrative law judge shall issue a recommended determination containing findings of fact and recommendations concerning—

(A) The appropriate remedy in the event that the Commission finds a violation of section 337, and

(B) The amount of the bond to be posted by the respondents during Presidential review of Commission action under section 337(j) of the Tariff Act.

(C) The public interest under sections 337(d)(1) and (f)(1) in investigations where the Commission has ordered the administrative law judge under § 210.50(b)(1) to take evidence with respect to the public interest.

(2) On certain motions to declassify information. The decision of the administrative law judge granting a motion to declassify information, in whole or in part, shall be in the form of an initial determination as provided in § 210.20(b).

(3) On potentially dispositive issues. The administrative law judge shall issue an initial determination ruling on a potentially dispositive issue in accordance with a Commission order pursuant to § 210.10(b)(3). The administrative law judge shall certify the record to the Commission and shall file an initial determination ruling on the potentially dispositive issue designated pursuant to § 210.10(b)(3) within 100 days of institution, or as extended for good cause shown.

(b) On issues concerning temporary relief or forfeiture of temporary relief bonds. Certification of the record and the disposition of an initial determination concerning a motion for temporary relief are governed by §§ 210.65 and 210.66. The disposition of an initial determination concerning possible forfeiture or return of a complainant's temporary relief bond, in whole or in part, is governed by § 210.70.

(c) On other matters. (1) The administrative law judge shall grant the following types of motions by issuing an initial determination or shall deny them by issuing an order: a motion to amend the complaint or notice of investigation pursuant to § 210.14(b); a motion for a finding of default pursuant to §§ 210.16 and 210.17; a motion for summary determination pursuant to § 210.18; a motion for intervention pursuant to § 210.19; a motion for termination pursuant to § 210.21; a motion to suspend an investigation pursuant to § 210.23; or a motion to set a target date for an original investigation exceeding 16 months pursuant to § 210.51(a)(1); or a motion to set a target date for a formal enforcement proceeding exceeding 12 months pursuant to § 210.51(a)(2).

(2) The administrative law judge shall grant or deny the following types of motions by issuing an initial determination: a motion for forfeiture or return of respondents' bonds pursuant to § 210.50(d) or a motion for forfeiture or return of a complainant's temporary relief bond pursuant to § 210.70.

(d) Contents. The initial determination shall include: an opinion stating findings (with specific page references to principal supporting items of evidence in the record) and conclusions and the reasons or bases therefor necessary for the disposition of all material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented in the record; and a statement that, pursuant to § 210.42(h), the initial determination shall become the determination of the Commission unless a party files a petition for review of the initial determination pursuant to § 210.43(a) or the Commission, pursuant to § 210.44, orders on its own motion a review of the initial determination or certain issues therein.

(e) Notice to and advice from other departments and agencies. Notice of such initial determinations as the Commission may order shall be provided to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and such other departments and agencies as the Commission deems appropriate by posting of such notice on the Commission's website. The Commission shall consider comments, limited to issues raised by the record, the initial determination, and the petitions for review, received from such agencies when deciding whether to initiate review or the scope of review. The Commission shall allow such agencies 10 days after the posting of such notice of an initial determination on the Commission's website to submit their comments.

(f) Initial determination made by the administrative law judge. An initial determination under this section shall be made and filed by the administrative law judge who presided over the investigation, except when that person is unavailable to the Commission and except as provided in § 210.20(a).

(g) Reopening of proceedings by the administrative law judge. At any time prior to the filing of the initial determination, the administrative law judge may reopen the proceedings for the reception of additional evidence.

(h) Effect. (1) An initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(a)(2) shall become the determination of the Commission 45 days after the date of service of the initial determination, unless the Commission has ordered review of the initial determination or certain issues therein, or by order has changed the effective date of the initial determination.

(2) An initial determination under § 210.42(a)(1)(i) shall become the determination of the Commission 60 days after the date of service of the initial determination, unless the Commission within 60 days after the date of such service shall have ordered review of the initial determination or certain issues therein or by order has changed the effective date of the initial determination. The findings and recommendations made by the administrative law judge in the recommended determination issued pursuant to § 210.42(a)(1)(ii) will be considered by the Commission in reaching determinations on remedy and bonding by the respondents pursuant to § 210.50(a).

(3) An initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(c) shall become the determination of the Commission 30 days after the date of service of the initial determination, except as provided for in paragraph (h)(5) and paragraph (h)(6) of this section, § 210.50(d)(3), and § 210.70(c), unless the Commission, within 30 days after the date of such service shall have ordered review of the initial determination or certain issues therein or by order has changed the effective date of the initial determination.

(4) The disposition of an initial determination granting or denying a motion for temporary relief is governed by § 210.66.

(5) The disposition of an initial determination concerning possible forfeiture of a complainant's temporary relief bond is governed by § 210.70(c).

(6) The disposition of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(c) which grants a motion for summary determination that would terminate the investigation in its entirety if it were to become the Commission's final determination, shall become the final determination of the Commission 45 days after the date of service of the initial determination, unless the Commission has ordered review of the initial determination or certain issues therein, or by order has changed the effective date of the initial determination.

(7) An initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(a)(3) shall become the determination of the Commission 30 days after the date of service of the initial determination, unless the Commission has ordered review of the initial determination or certain issues therein, or by order has changed the effective date of the initial determination.

(i) Notice of determination. A notice stating that the Commission's decision on whether to review an initial determination will be issued by the Secretary and served on the parties. Notice of the Commission's decision will be published in the Federal Register if the decision results in termination of the investigation in its entirety, if the Commission deems publication of the notice to be appropriate under § 201.10 of subpart B of this part, or if publication of the notice is required under § 210.49(b) of this subpart or § 210.66(f) of subpart H of this part.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67628, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 53120, Oct. 12, 1995; 73 FR 38324, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 64809, Oct. 19, 2011; 78 FR 23484, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21162, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.43
Petitions for review of initial determinations on matters other than temporary relief.

(a) Filing of the petition. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any party to an investigation may request Commission review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(1) or (c), § 210.50(d)(3), § 210.70(c), or § 210.75(b)(3) by filing a petition with the Secretary. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(1) must be filed within 12 days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(3) must be filed within five (5) business days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(c) that terminates the investigation in its entirety on summary determination, or an initial determination issued under § 210.50(d)(3), § 210.70(c), or § 210.75(b)(3), must be filed within 10 days after service of the initial determination. Petitions for review of all other initial determinations under § 210.42(c) must be filed within five (5) business days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.50(d)(3) or § 210.70(c) must be filed within 10 days after service of the initial determination.

(2) A party may not petition for review of any issue as to which the party has been found to be in default. Similarly, a party or proposed respondent who did not file a response to the motion addressed in the initial determination may be deemed to have consented to the relief requested and may not petition for review of the issues raised in the motion.

(b) Content of the petition. (1) A petition for review filed under this section shall identify the party seeking review and shall specify the issues upon which review of the initial determination is sought, and shall, with respect to each such issue, specify one or more of the following grounds upon which review is sought:

(i) That a finding or conclusion of material fact is clearly erroneous;

(ii) That a legal conclusion is erroneous, without governing precedent, rule or law, or constitutes an abuse of discretion; or

(iii) That the determination is one affecting Commission policy.

(2) The petition for review must set forth a concise statement of the facts material to the consideration of the stated issues, and must present a concise argument providing the reasons that review by the Commission is necessary or appropriate to resolve an important issue of fact, law, or policy. If a petition filed under this paragraph exceeds 50 pages in length, it must be accompanied by a summary of the petition not to exceed ten pages. Petitions for review may not exceed 100 pages in length, exclusive of the summary and any exhibits. Petitions for review may not incorporate statements, issues, or arguments by reference. Any issue not raised in a petition for review will be deemed to have been abandoned by the petitioning party and may be disregarded by the Commission in reviewing the initial determination (unless the Commission chooses to review the issue on its own initiative under § 210.44), and any argument not relied on in a petition for review will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission.

(3) Any petition designated by the petitioner as a “contingent” petition for review shall be deemed to be a petition under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and shall be processed accordingly. In order to preserve an issue for review by the Commission or the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that was decided adversely to a party, the issue must be raised in a petition for review, whether or not the Commission's determination on the ultimate issue, such as a violation of section 337, was decided adversely to the party.

(4) A party's failure to file a petition for review of an initial determination shall constitute abandonment of all issues decided adversely to that party in the initial determination.

(5) Service of petition. All petitions for review of an initial determination shall be served on the other parties by messenger, overnight delivery, or equivalent means.

(c) Responses to the petition. Any party may file a response within eight (8) days after service of a petition of a final initial determination under § 210.42(a)(1), and within five (5) business days after service of all other types of petitions, except that a party who has been found to be in default may not file a response to any issue as to which the party has defaulted. If a response to a petition for review filed under this paragraph exceeds 50 pages in length, it must be accompanied by a summary of the response not to exceed ten pages. Responses to petitions for review may not exceed 100 pages in length, exclusive of the summary and any exhibits. Responses to petitions for review may not incorporate statements, issues, or arguments by reference. Any argument not relied on in a response will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission.

(d) Grant or denial of review. (1) The Commission shall decide whether to grant, in whole or in part, a petition for review of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(a)(2) or § 210.42(c), which grants a motion for summary determination that would terminate the investigation in its entirety if it becomes the final determination of the Commission, § 210.50(d)(3), or § 210.70(c) within 45 days after the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order. The Commission shall decide whether to grant, in whole or in part, a petition for review of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(a)(3) within 30 days after the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order. The Commission shall decide whether to grant, in whole or in part, a petition for review of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(c), except as noted above, within 30 days after the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order.

(2) The Commission shall decide whether to grant a petition for review, based upon the petition and response thereto, without oral argument or further written submissions unless the Commission shall order otherwise. A petition will be granted and review will be ordered if it appears that an error or abuse of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is present or if the petition raises a policy matter connected with the initial determination, which the Commission thinks it necessary or appropriate to address.

(3) The Commission shall grant a petition for review and order review of an initial determination or certain issues therein when at least one of the participating Commissioners votes for ordering review. In its notice, the Commission shall establish the scope of the review and the issues that will be considered and make provisions for filing of briefs and oral argument if deemed appropriate by the Commission.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67628, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 53120, Oct. 12, 1995; 73 FR 38325, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23484, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21162, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.44
Commission review on its own motion of initial determinations on matters other than temporary relief.

Within the time provided in § 210.43(d)(1), the Commission on its own initiative may order review of an initial determination, or certain issues in the initial determination, when at least one of the participating Commissioners votes for ordering review. A self-initiated Commission review of an initial determination will be ordered if it appears that an error or abuse of the kind described in § 210.43(b)(1) is present or the initial determination raises a policy matter which the Commission thinks is necessary or appropriate to address.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.45
Review of initial determinations on matters other than temporary relief.

(a) Briefs and oral argument. In the event the Commission orders review of an initial determination pertaining to issues other than temporary relief, the parties may be requested to file briefs on the issues under review at a time and of a size and nature specified in the notice of review. The parties, within the time provided for filing the review briefs, may submit a written request for a hearing to present oral argument before the Commission, which the Commission in its discretion may grant or deny. The Commission shall grant the request when at least one of the participating Commissioners votes in favor of granting the request.

(b) Scope of review. Only the issues set forth in the notice of review, and all subsidiary issues therein, will be considered by the Commission.

(c) Determination on review. On review, the Commission may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, the initial determination of the administrative law judge. In addition, the Commission may take no position on specific issues or portions of the initial determination of the administrative law judge. The Commission also may make any findings or conclusions that in its judgment are proper based on the record in the proceeding. If the Commission's determination on review terminates the investigation in its entirety, a notice will be published in the Federal Register.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 53120, Oct. 12, 1995; 73 FR 38235, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.46
Petitions for and sua sponte review of initial determinations on violation of section 337 or temporary relief.

(a) Violation of section 337. An initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(1)(i) on whether respondents have violated section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 will be processed as provided in § 210.42(e), (h)(2), and (i) and §§ 210.43 through 210.45. The Commission will issue a notice setting deadlines for written submissions from the parties, other Federal agencies, and interested members of the public on the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding by the respondents. In those submissions, the parties may assert their arguments concerning the recommended determination issued by the administrative law judge pursuant to § 210.42(a)(ii) on the issues of remedy and bonding by respondents.

(b) Temporary relief. Commission action on an initial determination concerning temporary relief is governed by § 210.66.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.47
Petitions for reconsideration.

Within 14 days after service of a Commission determination, any party may file with the Commission a petition for reconsideration of such determination or any action ordered to be taken thereunder, setting forth the relief desired and the grounds in support thereof. Any petition filed under this section must be confined to new questions raised by the determination or action ordered to be taken thereunder and upon which the petitioner had no opportunity to submit arguments. Any party desiring to oppose such a petition shall file an answer thereto within five days after service of the petition upon such party.Any party desiring to oppose such a petition shall file an answer thereto within five days after service of the petition upon such party. The Commission on its own initiative may order reconsideration of a Commission determination or any action ordered to be taken thereunder. The filing of a petition for reconsideration shall not stay the effective date of the determination or action ordered to be taken thereunder or toll the running of any statutory time period affecting such determination or action ordered to be taken thereunder unless specifically so ordered by the Commission.

[ 59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 21162, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.48
Disposition of petitions for reconsideration.

The Commission may affirm, set aside, or modify its determination, including any action ordered by it to be taken thereunder. When appropriate, the Commission may order the administrative law judge to take additional evidence.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.49
Implementation of Commission action.

(a) Service of Commission determination upon the parties. A Commission determination pursuant to § 210.45(c) or a termination on the basis of a licensing or other agreement, a consent order or an arbitration agreement pursuant to § 210.21(b), (c) or (d), respectively, shall be served upon each party to the investigation.

(b) Publication and transmittal to the President. A Commission determination that there is a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or that there is reason to believe that there is a violation, together with the action taken relative to such determination under § 210.50(a) or § 210.50(d) of this part, or the modification or rescission in whole or in part of an action taken under § 210.50(a), shall promptly be published in the Federal Register. It shall also be promptly transmitted to the President or an officer assigned the functions of the President under 19 U.S.C. 1337(j)(1)(B), 1337(j)(2), and 1337(j)(4), together with the record upon which the determination and the action are based.

(c) Enforceability of Commission action. Unless otherwise specified, any Commission action other than an exclusion order or an order directing seizure and forfeiture of articles imported in violation of an outstanding exclusion order shall be enforceable upon receipt by the affected party of notice of such action. Exclusion orders and seizure and forfeiture orders shall be enforceable upon receipt of notice thereof by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(d) Finality of affirmative Commission action. If the President does not disapprove the Commission's action within a 60-day period beginning the day after a copy of the Commission's action is delivered to the President, or if the President notifies the Commission before the close of the 60-day period that he approves the Commission's action, such action shall become final the day after the close of the 60-day period or the day the President notifies the Commission of his approval, as the case may be.

(e) Duration. Final Commission action shall remain in effect as provided in subpart I of this part.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67628, Dec. 30, 1994; 73 FR 38325, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.50
Commission action, the public interest, and bonding by respondents.

(a) During the course of each investigation under this part, the Commission shall—

(1) Consider what action (general or limited exclusion of articles from entry or a cease and desist order, or exclusion of articles from entry under bond or a temporary cease and desist order), if any, it should take, and, when appropriate, take such action;

(2) Consult with and seek advice and information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Customs Service, and such other departments and agencies as it considers appropriate, concerning the subject matter of the complaint and the effect its actions (general or limited exclusion of articles from entry or a cease and desist order, or exclusion of articles from entry under bond or a temporary cease and desist order) under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 shall have upon the public health and welfare, competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, and U.S. consumers;

(3) Determine the amount of the bond to be posted by a respondent pursuant to section 337(j)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930 following the issuance of temporary or permanent relief under section 337(d), (e), (f), or (g) of the Tariff Act of 1930, taking into account the requirement of section 337(e) and (j)(3) that the amount of the bond be sufficient to protect the complainant from any injury.

(4) Receive submissions from the parties, interested persons, and other Government agencies and departments with respect to the subject matter of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(i) After a recommended determination on remedy is issued by the presiding administrative law judge, the parties may submit to the Commission, within 30 days from service of the recommended determination, information relating to the public interest, including any updates to the information supplied under §§ 210.8(b) and (c) and 210.14(f). Submissions by the parties in response to the recommended determination are limited to 5 pages, inclusive of attachments. This provision does not apply to the public. Dates for submissions from the public are announced in the Federal Register .

(ii) When the matter under consideration pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section is whether to grant some form of permanent relief, the submissions described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall be filed by the deadlines specified in the Commission notice issued pursuant to § 210.46(a).

(iii) When the matter under consideration is whether to grant some form of temporary relief, such submissions shall be filed by the deadlines specified in § 210.67(b), unless the Commission orders otherwise.

(iv) Any submission from a party shall be served upon the other parties in accordance with § 210.4(g). The parties' submissions, as well as any filed by interested persons or other agencies shall be available for public inspection in the Office of the Secretary. If a party, interested person, or agency files a confidential version of its submission, it shall file a public version of the submission no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the submission.

(v) The Commission will consider motions for oral argument or, when necessary, a hearing with respect to the subject matter of this section, except that no hearing or oral argument will be permitted in connection with a motion for temporary relief.

(b)(1) With respect to an administrative law judge's authorization to take evidence or other information and to hear arguments from the parties and other interested persons on the issues of appropriate Commission action, the public interest, and bonding by the respondents for purposes of an initial determination on temporary relief, see §§ 210.61, 210.62, and 210.66(a). For purposes of the recommended determination required by § 210.42(a)(1)(ii), an administrative law judge shall take evidence or other information and hear arguments from the parties and other interested persons on the issues of appropriate Commission action and bonding by the respondents upon order of the Commission. Unless the Commission orders otherwise, and except as provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an administrative law judge shall not take evidence on the issue of the public interest for purposes of the recommended determination under § 210.42(a)(1)(ii).

(2) Regarding terminations by settlement agreement, consent order, or arbitration agreement under § 210.21 (b), (c) or (d), the parties may file statements regarding the impact of the proposed termination on the public interest, and the administrative law judge may hear argument, although no discovery may be compelled with respect to issues relating solely to the public interest. Thereafter, the administrative law judge shall consider and make appropriate findings in the initial determination regarding the effect of the proposed settlement on the public health and welfare, competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, and U.S. consumers.

(c) No general exclusion from entry of articles shall be ordered under paragraph (a)(1) of this section unless the Commission determines that—

(1) Such exclusion is necessary to prevent circumvention of an exclusion order limited to products of named persons; or

(2) There is a pattern of violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and it is difficult to identify the source of infringing products.

(d) Forfeiture or return of respondents' bonds. (1)(i) If one or more respondents posts a bond pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1337(e)(1) or 1337(j)(3), proceedings to determine whether a respondent's bond should be forfeited to a complainant in whole or part may be initiated upon the filing of a motion, addressed to the administrative law judge who last presided over the investigation, by a complainant within 90 days after the expiration of the period of Presidential review under 19 U.S.C. 1337(j), or if an appeal is taken from the determination of the Commission, within 30 days after the resolution of the appeal. If that administrative law judge is no longer employed by the Commission, the motion shall be addressed to the chief administrative law judge.

(ii) A respondent may file a motion addressed to the administrative law judge who last presided over the investigation for the return of its bond within 90 days after the expiration of the Presidential review period under 19 U.S.C. 1337(j), or if an appeal is taken from the determination of the Commission, within 30 days after the resolution of the appeal. If that administrative law judge is no longer employed by the Commission, the motion shall be addressed to the chief administrative law judge.

(2) Any nonmoving party may file a response to a motion filed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section within 15 days after filing of the motion, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(3) A motion for forfeiture or return of a respondent's bond in whole or part will be adjudicated by the administrative law judge in an initial determination with a 45-day effective date, which shall be subject to review under the provisions of §§ 210.42 through 210.45. In determining whether to grant the motion, the administrative law judge and the Commission will be guided by practice under Rule 65 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (taking into account that the roles of the parties are reversed in this instance).

(4) If the Commission determines that a respondent's bond should be forfeited to a complainant, and if the bond is being held by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Commission Secretary shall promptly notify the Secretary of the Treasury of the Commission's determination.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67628, Dec. 30, 1994; 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 64809, Oct. 19, 2011; 78 FR 23485, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21162, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.51
Period for concluding investigation.

(a) Permanent relief. Within 45 days after institution of an original investigation on whether there is a violation of section 337, or an investigation which is a formal enforcement proceeding, the administrative law judge shall issue an order setting a target date for completion of the investigation. After the target date has been set, it can be modified by the administrative law judge for good cause shown before the investigation is certified to the Commission or by the Commission after the investigation is certified to the Commission.

(1) Original investigations. If the target date does not exceed 16 months from the date of institution of an original investigation, the order of the administrative law judge shall be final and not subject to interlocutory review. If the target date exceeds 16 months, the order of the administrative law judge shall constitute an initial determination. Any extension of the target date beyond 16 months, before the investigation is certified to the Commission, shall be by initial determination.

(2) Formal enforcement proceedings. If the target date does not exceed 12 months from the date of institution of the formal enforcement proceeding, the order of the administrative law judge shall be final and not subject to interlocutory review. If the target date exceeds 12 months, the order of the administrative law judge shall constitute an initial determination. Any extension of the target date beyond 12 months, before the formal enforcement proceeding is certified to the Commission, shall be by initial determination.

(b) Temporary relief. The temporary relief phase of an investigation shall be concluded and a final order issued no later than 90 days after publication of the notice of investigation in the Federal Register, unless the temporary relief phase of the investigation has been designated “more complicated” by the Commission or the presiding administrative law judge pursuant to § 210.22(c) and § 210.60. If that designation has been made, the temporary relief phase of the investigation shall be concluded and a final order issued no later than 150 days after publication of the notice of investigation in the Federal Register.

(c) Computation of time. In computing the deadlines imposed in paragraph (b) of this section, there shall be excluded any period during which the investigation is suspended pursuant to § 210.23.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67629, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 43432, Aug. 23, 1996; 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23485, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.52
Motions for temporary relief.

Requests for temporary relief under section 337 (e) or (f) of the Tariff Act of 1930 shall be made through a motion filed in accordance with the following provisions:

(a) A complaint requesting temporary relief shall be accompanied by a motion setting forth the complainant's request for such relief. In determining whether to grant temporary relief, the Commission will apply the standards the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit uses in determining whether to affirm lower court decisions granting preliminary injunctions. The motion for temporary relief accordingly must contain a detailed statement of specific facts bearing on the factors the Federal Circuit has stated that a U.S. District Court must consider in granting a preliminary injunction.

(b) The motion must also contain a detailed statement of facts bearing on:

(1) Whether the complainant should be required to post a bond as a prerequisite to the issuance of temporary relief; and

(2) The appropriate amount of the bond, if the Commission determines that a bond will be required.

(c) In determining whether to require a bond as a prerequisite to the issuance of temporary relief, the Commission will be guided by practice under Rule 65 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(d) The following documents and information also shall be filed along with the motion for temporary relief:

(1) A memorandum of points and authorities in support of the motion;

(2) Affidavits executed by persons with knowledge of the facts asserted in the motion; and

(3) All documents, information, and other evidence in complainant's possession that complainant intends to submit in support of the motion.

(e) If the complaint, the motion for temporary relief, or the documentation supporting the motion for temporary relief contains confidential business information as defined in § 201.6(a) of this chapter, the complainant must follow the procedure outlined in §§ 210.4(a), 210.5(a), 201.6 (a) and (c), 210.8(a), and 210.55 of this part.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67629, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 32444, June 22, 1995]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.53
Motion filed after complaint.

(a) A motion for temporary relief may be filed after the complaint, but must be filed prior to the Commission determination under § 210.10 on whether to institute an investigation. A motion filed after the complaint shall contain the information, documents, and evidence described in § 210.52 and must also make a showing that extraordinary circumstances exist that warrant temporary relief and that the moving party was not aware, and with due diligence could not have been aware, of those circumstances at the time the complaint was filed. When a motion for temporary relief is filed after the complaint but before the Commission has determined whether to institute an investigation based on the complaint, the 35-day period allotted under § 210.58 for review of the complaint and informal investigatory activity will begin to run anew from the date on which the motion was filed.

(b) A motion for temporary relief may not be filed after an investigation has been instituted.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.54
Service of motion by the complainant.

Notwithstanding the provisions of § 210.11 regarding service of the complaint by the Commission upon institution of an investigation, on the day the complainant files a complaint and motion for temporary relief, if any, with the Commission (see § 210.8(a)(1) and (a)(2) of subpart B of this part), the complainant must serve non-confidential copies of both documents (as well as non-confidential copies of all materials or documents attached thereto) on all proposed respondents and on the embassy in Washington, DC of the country in which each proposed respondent is located as indicated in the Complaint. If a complainant files any supplemental information with the Commission prior to institution, nonconfidential copies of that supplemental information must be served on all proposed respondents and on the embassy in Washington, DC of the country in which each proposed respondent is located as indicated in the complaint. The complaint, motion, and supplemental information, if any, shall be served by messenger, overnight delivery, or equivalent means. A signed certificate of service must accompany the complaint and motion for temporary relief. If the certificate does not accompany the complaint and the motion, the Secretary shall not accept the complaint or the motion and shall promptly notify the submitter. Actual proof of service on each respondent and embassy (e.g., certified mail return receipts, messenger, or overnight delivery receipts, or other proof of delivery)—or proof of a serious but unsuccessful effort to make such service—must be filed within 10 days after the filing of the complaint and motion. If the requirements of this section are not satisfied, the Commission may extend its 35-day deadline under § 210.58 for determining whether to provisionally accept the motion for temporary relief and institute an investigation on the basis of the complaint.

[73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 23485, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.55
Content of service copies.

(a) Any purported confidential business information that is deleted from the nonconfidential service copies of the complaint and motion for temporary relief must satisfy the requirements of § 201.6(a) of this chapter (which defines confidential information for purposes of Commission proceedings). For attachments to the complaint or motion that are confidential in their entirety, the complainant must provide a nonconfidential summary of what each attachment contains. Despite the redaction of confidential material from the complaint and motion for temporary relief, the nonconfidential service copies must contain enough factual information about each element of the violation alleged in the complaint and the motion to enable each proposed respondent to comprehend the allegations against it.

(b) If the Commission determines that the complaint, motion for temporary relief, or any exhibits or attachments thereto contain excessive designations of confidentiality that are not warranted under § 201.6(a) of this chapter, the Commission may require the complainant to file and serve new non-confidential versions of the aforesaid submissions in accordance with § 210.54 and may determine that the 35-day period under § 210.58 for deciding whether to institute an investigation and to provisionally accept the motion for temporary relief for further processing shall begin to run anew from the date the new non-confidential versions are filed with the Commission and served on the proposed respondents in accordance with § 210.54.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.56
Notice accompanying service copies.

(a) Each service copy of the complaint and motion for temporary relief shall be accompanied by a notice containing the following text:

Notice is hereby given that the attached complaint and motion for temporary relief will be filed with the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington, DC on ________, 20__. The filing of the complaint and motion will not institute an investigation on that date, however, nor will it begin the period for filing responses to the complaint and motion pursuant to 19 CFR 210.13 and 210.59. Upon receipt of the complaint, the Commission will examine the complaint for sufficiency and compliance with 19 CFR 210.4, 210.5, 210.8, and 210.12. The Commission's Office of Unfair Import Investigations will conduct informal investigatory activity pursuant to 19 CFR 210.9 to identify sources of relevant information and to assure itself of the availability thereof. The motion for temporary relief will be examined for sufficiency and compliance with 19 CFR 201.8, 210.4, 210.5, 210.52, 210.53(a) (if applicable), 210.54, 210.55, and 210.56, and will be subject to the same type of preliminary investigative activity as the complaint. The Commission generally will determine whether to institute an investigation on the basis of the complaint and whether to provisionally accept the motion for temporary relief within 35 days after the complaint and motion are filed or, if the motion is filed after the complaint, within 35 days after the motion is filed—unless the 35-day deadline is extended pursuant to 19 CFR 210.53, 210.54, 210.55(b), 210.57, or 210.58. If the Commission determines to institute an investigation and provisionally accept the motion, the motion will be assigned to a Commission administrative law judge for issuance of an initial determination in accordance with 19 CFR 210.66. See 19 CFR 210.10 and 210.58. If the Commission determines to conduct an investigation of the complaint and motion for temporary relief, the investigation will be formally instituted on the date the Commission publishes a notice of investigation in the Federal Register pursuant to 19 CFR 210.10(b). If an investigation is instituted, copies of the complaint, the notice of investigation, and the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (19 CFR Part 210) will be served on each respondent by the Commission pursuant to 19 CFR 210.11(a). Responses to the complaint, the notice of investigation, and the motion for temporary relief must be filed within 10 days after Commission service thereof, and must comply with 19 CFR 201.8, 210.4, 210.5, 210.13, and 210.59. See also 19 CFR 201.14 and 210.6 regarding computation of the 10-day response period. If, after reviewing the complaint and motion for temporary relief, the Commission determines not to institute an investigation, the complaint and motion will be dismissed and the Commission will provide written notice of that decision and the reasons therefor to the complainant and all proposed respondents pursuant to 19 CFR 210.10. For information concerning the filing and processing of the complaint and its treatment, and to ask general questions concerning section 337 practice and procedure, contact the Office of Unfair Import Investigations, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Room 401, Washington, DC 20436, telephone 202-205-2560. Such inquiries will be referred to the Commission investigative attorney assigned to the complaint. (See also the Commissions's Rules of Practice and Procedure set forth in 19 CFR Part 210.) To learn the date that the Commission will vote on whether to institute an investigation and the publication date of the notice of investigation (if the Commission decides to institute an investigation), contact the Office of the Secretary, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., room 112, Washington, DC 20436, telephone 202-205-2000. This notice is being provided pursuant to 19 CFR 210.56.

(b) In the event that the complaint and motion for temporary relief are filed after the date specified in the above notice, the complainant must serve a supplementary notice to all proposed respondents and embassies stating the correct filing date. The supplementary notice shall be served by messenger, overnight delivery, or equivalent means. The complainant shall file a certificate of service and a copy of the supplementary notice with the Commission.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23485, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.57
Amendment of the motion.

A motion for temporary relief may be amended at any time prior to the institution of an investigation. All material filed to amend the motion (or the complaint) must be served on all proposed respondents and on the embassies in Washington, DC, of the foreign governments that they represent, in accordance with § 210.54. If the amendment expands the scope of the motion or changes the complainant's assertions on the issue of whether a bond is to be required as a prerequisite to the issuance of temporary relief or the appropriate amount of the bond, the 35-day period under § 210.58 for determining whether to institute an investigation and provisionally accept the motion for temporary relief shall begin to run anew from the date the amendment is filed with the Commission. A motion for temporary relief may not be amended to expand the scope of the temporary relief inquiry after an investigation is instituted.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.58
Provisional acceptance of the motion.

The Commission shall determine whether to accept a motion for temporary relief at the same time it determines whether to institute an investigation on the basis of the complaint. That determination shall be made within 35 days after the complaint and motion for temporary relief are filed, unless the 35-day period is restarted pursuant to § 210.53(a), § 210.54, § 210.55, or § 210.57, or exceptional circumstances exist which preclude adherence to the prescribed deadline. (See § 210.10(a)(1).) Before the Commission determines whether to provisionally accept a motion for temporary relief, the motion will be examined for sufficiency and compliance with §§ 210.52, 210.53(a) (if applicable), 210.54 through 210.56, as well as §§ 210.4 and 210.5. The motion will be subject to the same type of preliminary investigatory activity as the complaint. (See § 210.9(b).) Acceptance of a motion pursuant to this paragraph constitutes provisional acceptance for referral of the motion to the chief administrative law judge, who will assign the motion to a presiding administrative law judge for issuance of an initial determination under § 210.66(a). Commission rejection of an insufficient or improperly filed complaint will preclude acceptance of a motion for temporary relief. Commission rejection of a motion for temporary relief will not preclude institution of an investigation of the complaint.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 23486, Apr. 19, 2013]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.59
Responses to the motion and the complaint.

(a) Any party may file a response to a motion for temporary relief. Unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, a response to a motion for temporary relief in an ordinary investigation must be filed not later than 10 days after service of the motion by the Commission. In a “more complicated” investigation, the response shall be due within 20 days after such service, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding administrative law judge.

(b) The response must comply with the requirements of §§ 210.4 and 210.5 of this part, and shall contain the following information:

(1) A statement that sets forth with particularity any objection to the motion for temporary relief;

(2) A statement of specific facts concerning the factors the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit would consider in determining whether to affirm lower court decisions granting or denying preliminary injunctions;

(3) A memorandum of points and authorities in support of the respondent's response to the motion;

(4) Affidavits, where possible, executed by persons with knowledge of the facts specified in the response. Each response to the motion must address, to the extent possible, the complainant's assertions regarding whether a bond should be required and the appropriate amount of the bond. Responses to the motion for temporary relief also may contain counter-proposals concerning the amount of the bond or the manner in which the bond amount should be calculated.

(c) Each response to the motion for temporary relief must also be accompanied by a response to the complaint and notice of investigation. Responses to the complaint and notice of investigation must comply with §§ 210.4 and 210.5 of this part, and any protective order issued by the administrative law judge under § 210.34 of this part.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 23486, Apr. 19, 2013

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.60
Designating the temporary relief phase of an investigation more complicated for the purpose of adjudicating a motion for temporary relief.

(a) At the time the Commission determines to institute an investigation and provisionally accepts a motion for temporary relief pursuant to § 210.58, or at any time thereafter, the Commission may designate the temporary relief phase of an investigation “more complicated” pursuant to § 210.60(b) for the purpose of obtaining up to 60 additional days to adjudicate the motion for temporary relief. In the alternative, after the motion for temporary relief is referred to the administrative law judge for an initial determination under § 210.66(a), the administrative law judge may issue an order, sua sponte or on motion, designating the temporary relief phase of the investigation “more complicated” for the purpose of obtaining additional time to adjudicate the motion for temporary relief. Such order shall constitute a final determination of the Commission, and notice of the order shall be published in the Federal Register. As required by section 337(e)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930, the notice shall state the reasons that the temporary relief phase of the investigation was designated “more complicated.” The “more complicated” designation may be conferred by the Commission or the presiding administrative law judge pursuant to this paragraph on the basis of the complexity of the issues raised in the motion for temporary relief or the responses thereto, or for other good cause shown.

(b) A temporary relief phase is designated more complicated owing to the subject matter, difficulty in obtaining information, the large number of parties involved, or other significant factors.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 23486, Apr. 19, 2013

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.61
Discovery and compulsory process.

The presiding administrative law judge shall set all discovery deadlines. The administrative law judge's authority to compel discovery includes discovery relating to the following issues:

(a) Any matter relevant to the motion for temporary relief and the responses thereto, including the issues of bonding by the complainant; and

(b) The issues the Commission considers pursuant to sections 337 (e)(1), (f)(1), and (j)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930, viz.,

(1) The appropriate form of relief (notwithstanding the form requested in the motion for temporary relief),

(2) Whether the public interest precludes that form of relief, and

(3) The amount of the bond to be posted by the respondents to secure importations or sales of the subject imported merchandise while the temporary relief order is in effect. The administrative law judge may, but is not required to, make findings on the issues specified in sections 337 (e)(1), (f)(1), or (j)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930. Evidence and information obtained through discovery on those issues will be used by the parties and considered by the Commission in the context of the parties' written submissions on remedy, the public interest, and bonding by respondents, which are filed with the Commission pursuant to § 210.67(b).

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.62
Evidentiary hearing.

An opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act and § 210.36 of this part will be provided in connection with every motion for temporary relief. If a hearing is conducted, the presiding administrative law judge may, but is not required to, take evidence concerning the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding by respondents under section 337 (e)(1), (f)(1), and (j)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.63
Proposed findings and conclusions and briefs.

The administrative law judge shall determine whether and, if so, to what extent the parties shall be permitted to file proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, or briefs under § 210.40 concerning the issues involved in adjudication of the motion for temporary relief.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.64
Interlocutory appeals.

There will be no interlocutory appeals to the Commission under § 210.24 on any matter connected with a motion for temporary relief that is decided by an administrative law judge prior to the issuance of the initial determination on the motion for temporary relief.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.65
Certification of the record.

When the administrative law judge issues an initial determination concerning temporary relief pursuant to § 210.66(a), he shall also certify to the Commission the record upon which the initial determination is based.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.66
Initial determination concerning temporary relief; Commission action thereon.

(a) On or before the 70th day after publication of the notice of investigation in an ordinary investigation, or on or before the 120th day after such publication in a “more complicated” investigation, the administrative law judge will issue an initial determination concerning the issues listed in §§ 210.52 and 210.59. If the 70th day or the 120th day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the initial determination must be received in the Office of the Secretary no later than 12:00 noon on the first business day after the 70-day or 120-day deadline. The initial determination may, but is not required to, address the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding by the respondents pursuant under sections 337 (e)(1), (f)(1), and (j)(3) of the Tariff Act of 1930.

(b) If the initial determination on temporary relief is issued on the 70-day or 120-day deadline imposed in paragraph (a) of this section, the initial determination will become the Commission's determination 20 calendar days after issuance thereof in an ordinary case, and 30 calendar days after issuance in a “more complicated” investigation, unless the Commission modifies, reverses, or sets aside the initial determination in whole or part within that period. If the initial determination on temporary relief is issued before the 70-day or 120-day deadline imposed in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission will add the extra time to the 20-day or 30-day deadline to which it would otherwise have been held. In computing the deadlines imposed by this paragraph, intermediary Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays shall be included. If the last day of the period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday as defined in § 201.14(a) of this chapter, the effective date of the initial determination shall be extended to the next business day.

(c) The Commission will not modify, reverse, or set aside an initial determination concerning temporary relief unless the Commission finds that a finding of material fact is clearly erroneous, that the initial determination contains an error of law, or that there is a policy matter warranting discussion by the Commission. All parties may file written comments concerning any clear error of material fact, error of law, or policy matter warranting such action by the Commission. Such comments must be limited to 35 pages in an ordinary investigation and 45 pages in a “more complicated” investigation. The comments must be filed no later than seven calendar days after issuance of the initial determination in an ordinary case and 10 calendar days after issuance of the initial determination in a “more complicated” investigation. In computing the aforesaid 7-day and 10-day deadlines, intermediary Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays shall be included. If the initial determination is issued on a Friday, however, the filing deadline for comments shall be measured from the first business day after issuance. If the last day of the filing period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday as defined in § 201.14(a) of this chapter, the filing deadline shall be extended to the next business day. The parties shall serve their comments on other parties by messenger, overnight delivery, or equivalent means.

(d) Notice of the initial determination shall be served on the other agencies listed in § 210.50(a)(2). Those agencies will be given 10 calendar days from the date of service of the notice to file comments on the initial determination.

(e)(1) Each party may file a response to each set of comments filed by another party. All such reply comments must be filed within 10 calendar days after issuance of the initial determination in an ordinary case and within 14 calendar days after issuance of an initial determination in a “more complicated” investigation. The deadlines for filing reply comments shall be computed in the manner described in paragraph (c) of this section, except that in no case shall a party have fewer than two calendar days to file reply comments.

(2) Each set of reply comments will be limited to 20 pages in an ordinary investigation and 30 pages in a “more complicated” case.

(f) If the Commission determines to modify, reverse, or set aside the initial determination, the Commission will issue a notice and, if appropriate, a Commission opinion. If the Commission does not modify, reverse, or set aside the administrative law judge's initial determination within the time provided under paragraph (b) of this section, the initial determination will automatically become the determination of the Commission. Notice of the Commission's determination concerning the initial determination will be issued on the statutory deadline for determining whether to grant temporary relief, or as soon as possible thereafter, and will be served on the parties. Notice of the determination will be published in the Federal Register if the Commission's disposition of the initial determination has resulted in a determination that there is reason to believe that section 337 has been violated and a temporary remedial order is to be issued. If the Commission determines (either by reversing or modifying the administrative law judge's initial determination, or by adopting the initial determination) that the complainant must post a bond as a prerequisite to the issuance of temporary relief, the Commission may issue a supplemental notice setting forth conditions for the bond if any (in addition to those outlined in the initial determination) and the deadline for filing the bond with the Commission.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 53121, Oct. 12, 1995; 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.67
Remedy, the public interest, and bonding.

The procedure for arriving at the Commission's determination of the issues of the appropriate form of temporary relief, whether the public interest factors enumerated in the statute preclude such relief, and the amount of the bond under which respondents' merchandise will be permitted to enter the United States during the pendency of any temporary relief order issued by the Commission, is as follows:

(a) While the motion for temporary relief is before the administrative law judge, he may compel discovery on matters relating to remedy, the public interest and bonding (as provided in § 210.61). The administrative law judge also is authorized to make findings pertaining to the public interest, as provided in § 210.66(a). Such findings may be superseded, however, by Commission findings on that issue as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) On the 65th day after institution in an ordinary case or on the 110th day after institution in a “more complicated” investigation, all parties shall file written submissions with the Commission addressing those issues. The submissions shall refer to information and evidence already on the record, but additional information and evidence germane to the issues of appropriate relief, the statutory public interest factors, and bonding by respondents may be provided along with the parties' submissions. Pursuant to § 210.50(a)(4), interested persons may also file written comments, on the aforesaid dates, concerning the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding by the respondents.

(c) On or before the 90-day or 150-day statutory deadline for determining whether to order temporary relief under section 337 (e)(1) and/or (f)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930, the Commission will determine what relief is appropriate in light of any violation that appears to exist, whether the public interest factors enumerated in the statute preclude the issuance of such relief, and the amount of the bond under which the respondents' merchandise will be permitted to enter the United States during the pendency of any temporary relief order issued by the Commission. In the event that Commission's findings on the public interest pursuant to this paragraph are inconsistent with findings made by the administrative law judge in the initial determination pursuant to § 210.66(a), the Commission's findings are controlling.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.68
Complainant's temporary relief bond.

(a) In every investigation under this part involving a motion for temporary relief, the question of whether the complainant shall be required to post a bond as a prerequisite to the issuance of such relief shall be addressed by the parties, the presiding administrative law judge, and the Commission in the manner described in §§ 210.52, 210.59, 210.61, 210.62, and 210.66. If the Commission determines that a bond should be required, the bond may consist of one or more of the following:

(1) The surety bond of a surety or guarantee corporation that is licensed to do business with the United States in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9304-9306 and 31 CFR parts 223 and 224;

(2) The surety bond of an individual, a trust, an estate, or a partnership, or a corporation, whose solvency and financial responsibility will be investigated and verified by the Commission; or

(3) A certified check, a bank draft, a post office money order, cash, a United States bond, a Treasury note, or other Government obligation within the meaning of 31 U.S.C. 9301 and 31 CFR part 225, which is owned by the complainant and tendered in lieu of a surety bond, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9303(c) and 31 CFR part 225.

The same restrictions and requirements applicable to individual and corporate sureties on Customs bonds, which are set forth in 19 CFR part 113, shall apply with respect to sureties on bonds filed with the Commission by complainants as a prerequisite to a temporary relief under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. If the surety is an individual, the individual must file an affidavit of the type shown in appendix A to § 210.68. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, while the bond of the individual surety is in effect, an updated affidavit must be filed every four months (computed from the date on which the bond was approved by the Secretary or the Commission).

(b) The bond and accompanying documentation must be submitted to the Commission within the time specified in the Commission notice, order, determination, or opinion requiring the posting of a bond, or within such other time as the Commission may order. If the bond is not submitted within the specified period (and an extension of time has not been granted), temporary relief will not be issued.

(c) The corporate or individual surety on a bond or the person posting a certified check, a bank draft, a post office money order, cash, a United States bond, a Treasury note, or other Government obligation in lieu of a surety bond must provide the following information on the face of the bond or in the instrument authorizing the Government to collect or sell the bond, certified check, bank draft, post office money order, cash, United States bond, Treasury note, or other Government obligation in response to a Commission order requiring forfeiture of the bond pursuant to § 210.70:

(1) The investigation caption and docket number;

(2) The names, addresses, and seals (if appropriate) of the principal, the surety, the obligee, as well as the “attorney in fact” and the registered process agent (if applicable) (see Customs Service regulations in 19 CFR part 113 and Treasury Department regulations in 31 CFR parts 223, 224, and 225);

(3) The terms and conditions of the bond obligation, including the reason the bond is being posted, the amount of the bond, the effective date and duration of the bond (as prescribed by the Commission order, notice, determination, or opinion requiring the complainant to post a bond); and

(4) A section at the bottom of the bond or other instrument for the date and authorized signature of the Secretary to reflect Commission approval of the bond.

(d) Complainants who wish to post a certified check, a bank draft, a post office money order, cash, a United States bond, a Treasury note, or other Government obligation in lieu of a surety bond must notify the Commission in writing immediately upon receipt of the Commission document requiring the posting of a bond, and must contact the Secretary to make arrangements for Commission receipt, handling, management, and deposit of the certified check, bank draft, post office money order, cash, United States bond, Treasury note, or other Government obligation tendered in lieu of a surety bond, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. § 9303, 31 CFR parts 202, 206, and 225 and other governing Treasury regulations and circular(s). If required by the governing Treasury regulations and circular, a certified check, a bank draft, a post office money order, cash, a United States bond, a Treasury note, or other government obligation tendered in lieu of a surety bond may have to be collateralized. See, e.g., 31 CFR 202.6 and the appropriate Treasury Circular.

Appendix A to § 210.68—Affidavit by Individual Surety United States International Trade Commission Affidavit by Individual Surety 19 CFR 210.68 State of County SS: I, the undersigned, being duly sworn, depose and say that I am a citizen of the United States, and of full age and legally competent; that I am not a partner in any business of the principal on the bond or bonds on which I appear as surety; and that the information herein below furnished is true and complete to the best of my knowledge. This affidavit is made to induce the United States International Trade Commission to accept me as surety on the bond(s) filed or to be filed with the United States International Trade Commission pursuant to 19 CFR 210.68. I agree to notify the Commission of any transfer or change in any of the assets herein enumerated. 1. Name (First, Middle, Last) 2. Home Address 3. Type & Duration of Occupation 4. Name of Employer (If Self-Employed) 5. Business Address 6. Telephone No. Home Business 7. The following is a true representation of my assets, liabilities, and net worth and does not include any financial interest I have in the assets of the principal on the bond(s) on which I appear as surety. a. Fair value of solely owned real estate * b. All mortgages or other encumbrances on the real estate included in Line a c. Real estate equity (subtract Line b from Line a) d. Fair value of all solely owned property other than real estate e. Total of the amounts on Lines c and d f. All other liabilities owing or incurred not included in Line b g. Net worth (subtract Line f from Line e) *Do not include property exempt from execution and sale for any reason. Surety's interest in community property may be included if not so exempt. 8. LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF REAL ESTATE OF WHICH I AM SOLE OWNER, THE VALUE OF WHICH IS IN LINE a, ITEM 7 ABOVE 1 Amount of assessed value of above real estate for taxation purposes: 9. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY INCLUDED IN LINE d, ITEM 7 ABOVE (List the value of each category of property separately) 2 10. ALL OTHER BONDS ON WHICH I AM SURETY (State character and amount of each bond; if none, so state) 3 11. SIGNATURE 12. BOND AND COMMISSION INVESTIGATION TO WHICH THIS AFFIDAVIT RELATES SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME AS FOLLOWS: DATE OATH ADMINISTERED MONTH DAY YEAR CITY STATE (Or Other Jurisdiction) NAME & TITLE OF OFFICIAL ADMINISTERING OATH SIGNATURE MY COMMISSION EXPIRES INSTRUCTIONS 1. Here describe the property by giving the number of the lot and square or block, and addition or subdivision, if in a city, and, if in the country, after showing state, county, and township, locate the property by metes and bounds, or by part of section, township, and range, so that it may be identified. 2. Here describe the property by name so that it can be identified—for example “Fifteen shares of the stock of the “National Metropolitan Bank, New York City,” or “Am. T. & T. s. f.5's 60.” 3. Here state what other bonds the affiant has already signed as surety, giving the name and address of the principal, the date, and the amount and character of the bond.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994; 59 FR 64286, Dec. 14, 1994]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.69
Approval of complainant's temporary relief bond.

(a) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. § 9304(b), all bonds posted by complainants must be approved by the Commission before the temporary relief sought by the complainant will be issued. See also 31 U.S.C. § 9303(a) and 31 CFR 225.1 and 225.20. The Commission's bond approval officer for purposes of those provisions shall be the Secretary.

(b) The bond approval process may entail investigation by the Secretary or the Commission's Office of Investigations to determine the veracity of all factual information set forth in the bond and the accompanying documentation (e.g., powers of attorney), as well as any additional verification required by 31 CFR parts 223, 224, or 225. The Secretary may reject a bond on one or more of the following grounds:

(1) Failure to comply with the instructions in the Commission determination, order, or notice directing the complainant to post a bond;

(2) Failure of the surety or the bond to provide information or supporting documentation required by the Commission, the Secretary, § 210.68 of this part, 31 CFR parts 223 or 224, or other governing statutes, regulations, or Treasury circulars, or because of a limitation prescribed in a governing statute, regulation, or circular;

(3) Failure of an individual surety to execute and file with the bond, an affidavit of the type shown in appendix A to § 210.68, which sets forth information about the surety's assets, liabilities, net worth, real estate and other property of which the initial surety is the sole owner, other bonds on which the individual surety is a surety (and which must be updated at 4-month intervals while the bond is in effect, measured from the date on which the bond is approved by the Secretary on behalf of the Commission or by the Commission);

(4) Any question about the solvency or financial responsibility of the surety, or any question of fraud, misrepresentation, or perjury which comes to light as a result of the verification inquiry during the bond approval process; and

(5) Any other reason deemed appropriate by the Secretary.

(c) If the complainant believes that the Secretary's rejection of the bond was erroneous as a matter of law, the complainant may appeal the Secretary's rejection of the bond by filing a petition with the Commission in the form of a letter to the Chairman, within 10 days after service of the rejection letter.

(d) After the bond is approved and temporary relief is issued, if any question concerning the continued solvency of the individual or the legality or enforceability of the bond or undertaking develops, the Commission may take the following action(s), sua sponte or on motion;

(1) Revoke the Commission approval of the bond and require complainant to post a new bond; or

(2) Revoke or vacate the temporary remedial order for public interest reasons or changed conditions of law or fact (criteria that are the basis for modification or rescission of final Commission action pursuant to § 210.76(a)(1) and (b)); or

(3) Notify the Treasury Department if the problem involves a corporate surety licensed to do business with the United States under 31 U.S.C. §§ 9303-9306 and 31 CFR parts 223 and 224; or

(4) Refer the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice if there is a suggestion of fraud, perjury, or related conduct.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.70
Forfeiture or return of complainant's temporary relief bond.

(a)(1) If the Commission determines that one or more of the respondents whose merchandise was covered by the temporary relief order has not violated section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 to the extent alleged in the motion for temporary relief and provided for in the temporary relief order, proceedings to determine whether the complainant's bond should be forfeited to one or more respondents in whole or part may be initiated upon the filing of a motion by a respondent within 30 days after filing of the aforesaid Commission determination on violation.

(2) A complainant may file a motion for the return of its bond.

(b) Any nonmoving party may file a response to a motion filed under paragraph (a) of this section within 15 days after filing of the motion, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(c) A motion for forfeiture or return of a complainant's temporary relief bond in whole or part will be adjudicated by the administrative law judge in an initial determination with a 45-day effective date, which shall be subject to review under the provisions of §§ 210.42 through 210.45. In determining whether to grant the motion, the administrative law judge and the Commission will be guided by practice under Rule 65 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

[59 FR 67629, Dec. 30, 1994]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.71
Information gathering.

(a) Power to require information. (1) Whenever the Commission issues an exclusion order, the Commission may require any person to report facts available to that person that will help the Commission assist the U.S. Customs Service in determining whether and to what extent there is compliance with the order. Similarly, whenever the Commission issues a cease and desist order or a consent order, it may require any person to report facts available to that person that will aid the Commission in determining whether and to what extent there is compliance with the order or whether and to what extent the conditions that led to the order are changed.

(2) The Commission may also include provisions that exercise any other information-gathering power available to the Commission by law, regardless of whether the order at issue is an exclusion order, a cease and desist order, or a consent order. The Commission may at any time request the cooperation of any person or agency in supplying it with information that will aid the Commission or the U.S. Customs Service in making the determinations described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) Form and detail of reports. Reports under paragraph (a) of this section are to be in writing, under oath, and in such detail and in such form as the Commission prescribes.

(c) Power to enforce informational requirements. Terms and conditions of exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, and consent orders for reporting and information gathering shall be enforceable by the Commission by a civil action under 19 U.S.C. 1333, or, at the Commission's discretion, in the same manner as any other provision of the exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order is enforced.

(d) Term of reporting requirement. An exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order may provide for the frequency of reporting or information gathering and the date on which these activities are to terminate. If no date for termination is provided, reporting and information gathering shall terminate when the exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order or any amendment to it expires by its own terms or is terminated.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38327, July 7, 2008]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.72
Confidentiality of information.

Confidential information (as defined in § 201.6(a) of this chapter) that is provided to the Commission pursuant to exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order will be received by the Commission in confidence. Requests for confidential treatment shall comply with § 201.6 of this chapter. The restrictions on disclosure and the procedures for handling such information (which are set out in §§ 210.5 and 210.39) shall apply and, in a proceeding under § 210.75 or § 210.76, the Commission or the presiding administrative law judge may, upon motion or sua sponte, issue or continue appropriate protective orders.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.73
Review of reports.

(a) Review to insure compliance. The Commission, through the Office of Unfair Import Investigations, will review reports submitted pursuant to any exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order and conduct such further investigation as it deems necessary to insure compliance with its orders.

(b) Extension of time. The Director of the Office of Unfair Import Investigations may, for good cause shown, extend the time in which reports required by exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, and consent orders may be filed. An extension of time within which a report may be filed, or the filing of a report that does not evidence full compliance with the order, does not in any circumstances suspend or relieve a respondent from its obligation under the law with respect to compliance with such order.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.74
Modification of reporting requirements.

(a) Exclusion and cease and desist orders. The Commission may modify reporting requirements of exclusion and cease and desist orders as necessary:

(1) To help the Commission assist the U.S. Customs Service in ascertaining that there has been compliance with an outstanding exclusion order;

(2) To help the Commission ascertain that there has been compliance with a cease and desist order;

(3) To take account of changed circumstances; or

(4) To minimize the burden of reporting or informational access.

An order to modify reporting requirements shall identify the reports involved and state the reason or reasons for modification. No reporting requirement will be suspended during the pendency of such a modification unless the Commission so orders. The Commission may, if the public interest warrants, announce that a modification of reporting is under consideration and ask for comment, but it may also modify any reporting requirement at any time without notice, consistent with the standards of this section.

(b) Consent orders. Consistent with the standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission may modify reporting requirements of consent orders. The Commission shall serve notice of any proposed change, together with the reporting requirements to be modified and the reasons therefor, on each party subject to the consent order. Such parties shall be given the opportunity to submit briefs to the Commission, and the Commission may hold a hearing on the matter. Notice of any proposed change in the reporting requirements will be published in the Federal Register if the Commission determines to solicit public comment on the proposed change.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 53121, Oct. 12, 1995]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.75
Proceedings to enforce exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, consent orders, and other Commission orders.

(a) Formal enforcement proceedings. (1) The Commission may institute an enforcement proceeding at the Commission level upon the filing by the complainant in the original investigation or his successor in interest, by the Office of Unfair Import Investigations, or by the Commission of a complaint setting forth alleged violations of any exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order. If a proceeding is instituted, the complaint shall be served upon the alleged violator and a notice of institution published in the Federal Register. Within 15 days after the date of service of such a complaint, the named respondent shall file a response to it. Responses shall fully advise the Commission as to the nature of any defense and shall admit or deny each allegation of the complaint specifically and in detail unless the respondent is without knowledge, in which case its answer shall so state and the statement shall operate as a denial. Allegations of fact not denied or controverted may be deemed admitted. Matters alleged as affirmative defenses shall be separately stated and numbered. These proceedings are authorized under section 337(b) as investigations on whether there is a violation of section 337 in the same manner as original investigations, and are conducted in accordance with the laws for original investigations as set forth in section 1337 of title 19 and sections 554, 555, 556, 557, and 702 of title 5 of the United States Code and the rules of this part.

(i) The determination of whether to institute shall be made within 30 days after the complaint is filed, unless—

(A) Exceptional circumstances preclude adherence to a 30-day deadline;

(B) The filing party requests that the Commission postpone the determination on whether to institute an investigation; or

(C) The filing party withdraws the complaint.

(ii) If exceptional circumstances preclude Commission adherence to the 30-day deadline for determining whether to institute an investigation on the basis of the complaint, the determination will be made as soon after that deadline as possible.

(iii) If the filing party desires to have the Commission postpone making a determination on whether to institute an investigation in response to the complaint, the filing party must file a written request with the Secretary. If the request is granted, the determination will be rescheduled for whatever date is appropriate in light of the facts.

(iv) The filing party may withdraw the complaint as a matter of right at any time before the Commission votes on whether to institute an enforcement proceeding. To effect such withdrawal, the filing party must file a written notice with the Commission.

(2) Upon the failure of a respondent to file and serve a response within the time and in the manner prescribed herein the Commission, in its discretion, may find the facts alleged in the complaint to be true and take such action as may be appropriate without notice or hearing, or, in its discretion, proceed without notice to take evidence on the allegations set forth in the complaint, provided that the Commission (or administrative law judge, if one is appointed) may permit late filings of an answer for good cause shown.

(3) The Commission, in the course of a formal enforcement proceeding under this section, may hold a public hearing and afford the parties to the enforcement proceeding the opportunity to appear and be heard. The Commission may delegate the hearing to the chief administrative law judge for designation of a presiding administrative law judge, who shall certify an initial determination to the Commission. A presiding administrative law judge shall certify the record and issue the enforcement initial determination to the Commission no later than three months before the target date for completion of a formal enforcement proceeding. Parties may file petitions for review, and responses thereto, in accordance with § 210.43 of this part. The enforcement initial determination shall become the determination of the Commission 45 days after the date of service of the enforcement initial determination, unless the Commission, within 45 days after the date of such service, shall have ordered review of the enforcement initial determination on certain issues therein, or by order shall have changed the effective date of the enforcement initial determination.

(4) Upon conclusion of a formal enforcement proceeding under this section, the Commission may:

(i) Modify a cease and desist order, consent order, and/or exclusion order in any manner necessary to prevent the unfair practices that were originally the basis for issuing such order;

(ii) Bring civil actions in a United States district court pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section (and section 337(f)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930) to recover for the United States the civil penalty accruing to the United States under that section for the breach of a cease and desist order or a consent order, and to obtain a mandatory injunction incorporating the relief the Commission deems appropriate for enforcement of the cease and desist order or consent order; or

(iii) Revoke the cease and desist order or consent order and direct that the articles concerned be excluded from entry into the United States.

(iv) Issue a new cease and desist order as necessary to prevent the unfair practices that were the basis for originally issuing the cease and desist order, consent order, and/or exclusion order subject to the enforcement proceeding.

(5) Prior to effecting any issuance, modification, revocation, or exclusion under this section, the Commission shall consider the effect of such action upon the public health and welfare, competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, the production of like or directly competitive articles in the United States, and U.S. consumers.

(6) In lieu of or in addition to taking the action provided for in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Commission may issue, pursuant to section 337(i) of the Tariff Act of 1930, an order providing that any article imported in violation of the provisions of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and an outstanding final exclusion order issued pursuant to section 337(d) of the Tariff Act of 1930 be seized and forfeited to the United States, if the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The owner, importer, or consignee of the article (or the agent of such person) previously attempted to import the article into the United States;

(ii) The article previously was denied entry into the United States by reason of a final exclusion order; and

(iii) Upon such previous denial of entry, the Secretary of the Treasury provided the owner, importer, or consignee of the article (or the agent of such person) with written notice of the aforesaid exclusion order and the fact that seizure and forfeiture would result from any further attempt to import the article into the United States.

(b) Court enforcement. To obtain judicial enforcement of an exclusion order, a cease and desist order, a consent order, or a sanctions order, the Commission may initiate a civil action in the U.S. district court. In a civil action under section 337(f)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930, the Commission may seek to recover for the United States the civil penalty accruing to the United States under that section for the breach of a cease and desist order or a consent order, and may ask the court to issue a mandatory injunction incorporating the relief the Commission deems appropriate for enforcement of the cease and desist order or consent order. The Commission may initiate a proceeding to obtain judicial enforcement without any other type of proceeding otherwise available under section 337 or this subpart or without prior notice to any person, except as required by the court in which the civil action is initiated.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38327, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23486, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21163, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.76
Modification or rescission of exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, consent orders, and seizure and forfeiture orders.

(a) Petitions for modification or rescission of exclusion orders, cease and desist orders, and consent orders. (1) Whenever any person believes that changed conditions of fact or law, or the public interest, require that an exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order be modified or set aside, in whole or in part, such person may request, pursuant to section 337(k)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930, that the Commission make a determination that the conditions which led to the issuance of an exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order no longer exist. The Commission may also on its own initiative consider such action. The request shall state the changes desired and the changed circumstances or public interest warranting such action, shall include materials and argument in support thereof, and shall be served on all parties to the investigation in which the exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order was issued. Any person may file an opposition to the petition within 10 days of service of the petition. If the Commission makes such a determination, it shall notify the Secretary of the Treasury and U.S. Custom and Border Protection.

(2) If the petitioner previously has been found by the Commission to be in violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and if its petition requests a Commission determination that the petitioner is no longer in violation of that section or requests modification or rescission of an order issued pursuant to section 337 (d), (e), (f), (g), or (i) of the Tariff Act of 1930, the burden of proof in any proceeding initiated in response to the petition pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be on the petitioner. In accordance with section 337(k)(2) of the Tariff Act, relief may be granted by the Commission with respect to such petition on the basis of new evidence or evidence that could not have been presented at the prior proceeding or on grounds that would permit relief from a judgment or order under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(3) If the petition requests modification or rescission of an order issued pursuant to section 337(d), (e), (f), (g), or (i) of the Tariff Act of 1930 on the basis of a licensing or other settlement agreement, the petition shall contain copies of the licensing or other settlement agreements, any supplemental agreements, any documents referenced in the petition or attached agreements, and a statement that there are no other agreements, written or oral, express or implied between the parties concerning the subject matter of the investigation. If the licensing or other settlement agreement contains confidential business information within the meaning of § 201.6(a) of this chapter, a copy of the agreement with such information deleted shall accompany the motion. On motion for good cause shown, the administrative law judge or the Commission may limit the service of the agreements to the settling parties and the Commission investigative attorney.

(b) Commission action upon receipt of petition. The Commission may thereafter institute a proceeding to modify or rescind the exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order by issuing a notice. The Commission may hold a public hearing and afford interested persons the opportunity to appear and be heard. After consideration of the petition, any responses thereto, and any information placed on the record at a public hearing or otherwise, the Commission shall take such action as it deems appropriate. The Commission may delegate any hearing under this section to the chief administrative law judge for designation of a presiding administrative law judge, who shall certify a recommended determination to the Commission.

(1) The determination of whether to institute shall be made within 30 days after the petition is filed, unless—

(i) Exceptional circumstances preclude adherence to a 30-day deadline;

(ii) The petitioner requests that the Commission postpone the determination on whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding; or

(iii) The petitioner withdraws the petition.

(2) If exceptional circumstances preclude Commission adherence to the 30-day deadline for determining whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding on the basis of the petition, the determination will be made as soon after that deadline as possible.

(3) If the petitioner desires to have the Commission postpone making a determination on whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding in response to the petition, the petitioner must file a written request with the Secretary. If the request is granted, the determination will be rescheduled for a date that is appropriate in light of the facts.

(4) The petitioner may withdraw the complaint as a matter of right at any time before the Commission votes on whether to institute a modification or rescission proceeding. To effect such withdrawal, the petitioner must file a written notice with the Commission.

(5) The Commission shall institute a modification or rescission proceeding by publication of a notice in the Federal Register. The notice will define the scope of the modification or rescission proceeding and may be amended by leave of the Commission.

(c) Comments. Parties may submit comments on the recommended determination within 10 days from the service of the recommended determination. Parties may submit responses thereto within 5 business days from service of any comments.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 43433, Aug. 23, 1996; 78 FR 23486, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21163, May 8, 2018]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.77


[Reserved]

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.78
Notice of enforcement action to Government agencies.

(a) Consultation. The Commission may consult with or seek information from any Government agency when taking any action under this subpart.

(b) Notification of Treasury. The Commission shall notify the Secretary of the Treasury of any action under this subpart that results in a permanent or temporary exclusion of articles from entry, or the revocation of an order to such effect, or the issuance of an order compelling seizure and forfeiture of imported articles.

## 19 C.F.R. § 210.79
Advisory opinions.

(a) Advisory opinions. Upon request of any person, the Commission may, upon such investigation as it deems necessary, issue an advisory opinion as to whether any person's proposed course of action or conduct would violate a Commission exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order. Any responses to a request for an advisory opinion shall be filed within 10 days of service of the request. The Commission will consider whether the issuance of such an advisory opinion would facilitate the enforcement of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, would be in the public interest, and would benefit consumers and competitive conditions in the United States, and whether the person has a compelling business need for the advice and has framed his request as fully and accurately as possible. Advisory opinion proceedings are not subject to sections 554, 555, 556, 557, and 702 of title 5 of the United States Code.

(1) The determination of whether to issue and advisory opinion shall be made within 30 days after the petition is filed, unless—

(i) Exceptional circumstances preclude adherence to a 30-day deadline;

(ii) The requester asks the Commission to postpone the determination on whether to institute an advisory proceeding; or

(iii) The petitioner withdraws the request.

(2) If exceptional circumstances preclude Commission adherence to the 30-day deadline for determining whether to institute an advisory proceeding on the basis of the request, the determination will be made as soon after that deadline as possible.

(3) If the requester desires that the Commission postpone making a determination on whether to institute an advisory proceeding in response to its request, the requester must file a written request with the Secretary. If the request is granted, the determination will be rescheduled for whatever date is appropriate in light of the facts.

(4) The requester may withdraw the request as a matter of right at any time before the Commission votes on whether to institute an advisory proceeding. To effect such withdrawal, the requester must file a written notice with the Commission.

(5) The Commission shall institute an advisory proceeding by publication of a notice in the Federal Register. The notice will define the scope of the advisory opinion and may be amended by leave of the Commission.

(b) Revocation. The Commission may at any time reconsider any advice given under this section and, where the public interest requires, revoke its prior advice. In such event the person will be given notice of the Commission's intent to revoke as well as an opportunity to submit its views to the Commission. The Commission will not proceed against a person for violation of an exclusion order, cease and desist order, or consent order with respect to any action that was taken in good faith reliance upon the Commission's advice under this section, if all relevant facts were accurately presented to the Commission and such action was promptly discontinued upon notification of revocation of the Commission's advice.

[59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38327, July 7, 2008; 83 FR 21164, May 8, 2018]
