## RCFC 1
Scope and Purpose

These rules govern the procedure in the United
States Court of Federal Claims in all suits. They
should be construed, administered, and employed
by the court and the parties to secure the just,
speedy, and inexpensive determination of every
action and proceeding.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 2 is identical to its FRCP counterpart.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 2 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as amended
Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1, 2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The Rules of the United States Court of
Federal Claims are drawn under the authority of 28
U.S.C. §§ 2071(a), (c); 2503(b) (generally);
2521(a) (subpoena and incidental powers). These
rules may be cited as “RCFC.” Rule 1 has been
revised to: (i) reflect the change in the court’s
name; (ii) eliminate, as no longer necessary, the
previous reference to proceedings pending in the
court on October 1, 1982, the year of the court’s
establishment; (iii) incorporate the 1993 revision to
Rule 1 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
(FRCP) emphasizing that the rules are to be both
construed and administered to ensure that civil
litigation is resolved not only fairly, but without
undue cost and delay; (iv) delete subdivision (a)(3)
for consistency with the FRCP (while retaining the
substance of this provision in RCFC 83(b), which
is modeled on FRCP 83(b)); and (v) move
subdivision (b) to the preamble, because it is
explanatory rather than prescriptive.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 1 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2016 Amendment
RCFC 1 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding change to FRCP 1 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

## RCFC 2
One Form of Action

There is one form of action—the civil action.

1

RCFC 1 and 2

TITLE II.

COMMENCING AN ACTION;
SERVICE
OF
PROCESS,
PLEADINGS, MOTIONS, AND
ORDERS

with a notice of the filing as required
by RCFC 5.
(3) Filing Fee. No filing fee is required in
this court when all filing fees required in
the other court are shown to have been
paid.
(4) Amended Complaint. Within 28 days
after service of the notice of filing, the
plaintiff must file an amended complaint,
conforming to the requirements of
RCFC 5.5(d)(1) and setting forth the
claim or claims transferred.
(5) Serving an Amended Complaint. The
clerk must serve the amended complaint
on the United States in accordance with
RCFC 4.
(b) Referral of a Case by the Comptroller
General.
(1) Serving a Notice. When a case is
referred to the court by the Comptroller
General, the clerk must serve a notice,
under RCFC 5:
(A) on each person whose name and
address are shown by the papers
transmitted and who appears to have
an interest in the subject matter of
the reference; and
(B) on the Attorney General.
(2) Contents of the Notice; Time for a
Response. The notice required by this
subdivision must:
(A) indicate that the reference has been
filed;
(B) explain that the person notified
appears to have an interest in the
subject matter of the reference; and
(C) advise that a complaint setting forth
any claim of such person must be
filed within 90 days.
(3) If a Party Fails to Appear. If no
interested person files a complaint within
the time specified in the notice served by
the clerk, the case will be submitted to the
court upon the papers filed and upon such
evidence, if any, as may be produced by
the Attorney General.

## RCFC 3
Commencing an Action

A civil action is commenced by filing a complaint
with the court.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
In the interest of achieving greater uniformity
with the corresponding FRCP, a number of
changes have been made to RCFC 3. First, former
subdivision (a) was fully conformed to the FRCP;
the reference to RCFC 40.2 calls attention to this
court’s “related case” rule. Second, former
subdivision (b), which addressed disputes
regarding filing dates, was deleted—both in the
interest of uniformity and in the belief that it was
inappropriate to include a rule of decision as part
of a procedural rule. Third, former subdivision (c)
(prescribing a cover sheet and identifying the
number of copies required for filing) was moved
to RCFC 5.3(d).
2008 Amendment
The caption of RCFC 3 has been amended to
conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, the parenthetical reference to
RCFC 40.2(a) (“Related Cases”) that was
included in the former version of RCFC 3 has
been deleted as unnecessary.

## RCFC 3.1
Transfers and Referrals

(a) Transfer From Another Court.
(1) Filing Requirements. When the transfer
of a case from another court is permitted
by law, including compliance with 28
U.S.C. § 1292(d)(4)(B), the case will be
filed in this court when the clerk receives:
(A) a certified copy of the docket or
record made in the other court; and
(B) an order granting the transfer.
(2) Notice of Filing. After a case is filed in
this court, the clerk must serve the parties

RCFC 3 and 3.1

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 15, 2011.)

2

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The title of RCFC 4 has been changed to
more closely conform to FRCP 4(i). Other
provisions of FRCP 4(i)—those dealing with
service upon agencies, corporations, or officers of
the United States—have not been made a part of
this court’s RCFC 4 because, in this court (with
the exception of vaccine cases), only the United
States is properly the named defendant. See
RCFC 10(a).

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 3.1 has no FRCP counterpart. The rule
formerly appeared in these rules as RCFC 84. The
renumbering of RCFC 84 was intended to reflect
its more logical placement in the organizational
structure of the court’s rules.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 3.1 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, the restyled rule omits as
unnecessary the former provision specifying the
filing of “8 copies of the complaint filed in the
other court” and the instruction that after the
filing of the complaint, or after referral of a case
by the Comptroller General, “further proceedings
will be governed by this court’s rules.”

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 4 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2011 Amendment
RCFC 4(a) has been amended to permit
service of a complaint on the United States by the
clerk’s delivery of one copy of the complaint (in
lieu of the formerly required 5 copies) “by hand
delivery or by sending it to an electronic address
designated by the Attorney General for this
purpose.”

2011 Amendment
RCFC 3.1(a)(4) has been amended to adopt
the revised filing requirements of RCFC 5.5(d)(1)
specifying that a plaintiff must file 2 copies of the
complaint and, except a plaintiff appearing pro
se, one copy of the complaint in electronic form
using a disc in CD-ROM format when the
complaint exceeds 20 pages.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 4(c) has been amended to clarify that
the date the United States is served is the date the
clerk enters the complaint in the court’s
electronic-filing system.

## RCFC 4


Serving a Complaint on the United
States
(a) Manner of Service. To serve a complaint on
the United States, the clerk must deliver one
copy of the complaint to the Attorney
General or to an agent designated by
authority of the Attorney General by hand
delivery or by sending it to an electronic
address designated by the Attorney General
for this purpose.
(b) Proof of Service. When serving a complaint,
the clerk must enter the fact of service on the
docket, and this entry will be prima facie
proof of service.
(c) Date of Service. The date service is made is
the date the clerk enters the complaint in the
court’s electronic-filing system.

## RCFC 4.1
Serving an Order in a Contempt

Proceeding
(a) Order Initiating a Contempt Proceeding.
(1) In General. An order initiating a
contempt proceeding against a person or
entity other than a party must be served
by a United States marshal or deputy
marshal or by a person specially
appointed by the court. A person
specially appointed for that purpose
should make service as provided for in
FRCP 4.
(2) Proof of Service. Proof of service must
be made in accordance with RCFC
45(b)(4).
(b) All Other Orders Related to a Contempt
Proceeding. All other orders related to a
contempt proceeding must be served either:
(1) in the manner prescribed by RCFC 4, if
against an agent of the United States; or

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 15, 2011, July 31,
2023.)

3

RCFC 4 and 4.1

(2) in the manner prescribed by RCFC 5, if
against a plaintiff, a plaintiff’s
representative, or a nonparty.

Indus., 699 F.2d 1254, 1259-62 (D.C. Cir. 1983)
(discussing service of contempt orders).
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 4.1 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, subdivision (a)(1) has been
changed in two respects. First, the phrase “or
entity” has been added to make clear that the
service requirements applicable to an order
initiating a contempt proceeding against a
nonparty apply to “a person or entity other than a
party.” Second, the phrase “shall deliver a copy
of the order to the person named therein” has been
omitted in favor of the following new sentence:
“A person specially appointed for that purpose
should make service as provided for in FRCP
4(l).” No other substantive changes are intended.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 3, 2015.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
New RCFC 4.1 implements the contempt
authority granted to this court by § 910 of the
Federal Courts Administration Act of 1992, Pub.
L. No. 102-572, 106 Stat. 4506, 4519-20. That
section, now codified at 28 U.S.C. § 2521(b), (c)
(1994), reads in relevant part as follows:
(b) The United States Court of
Federal Claims shall have power to
punish by fine or imprisonment, at its
discretion, such contempt of its authority
as—
(1) misbehavior of any
person in its presence or so near
thereto as to obstruct the
administration of justice;
(2) misbehavior of any of its
officers
in their
official
transactions; or
(3) disobedience
or
resistance to its lawful writ,
process, order, rule, decree, or
command.
(c) The United States Court of
Federal Claims shall have assistance in
the carrying out of its lawful writ,
process, order, rule, decree, or command
as is available to a court of the United
States. The United States marshal for any
district in which the Court of Federal
Claims is sitting shall, when requested by
the chief judge of the Court of Federal
Claims, attend any session of the Court
of Federal Claims in such district.
The rule adopts the mode of service specified
in FRCP 4.1, which requires that service of
process, other than a summons, be effected upon
non-parties through means more formal than
mailing. See generally FRCP 4.1 Advisory
Committee Notes (recognizing a distinction in
service requirements between parties and nonparties); I.A.M. Nat’l Pension Fund v. Wakefield

RCFC 5

2015 Amendment
RCFC 4.1(a)(1) has been amended by
striking the inclusion of subdivision (l) in the
reference to FRCP 4.

## RCFC 5


Serving and Filing Pleadings and
Other Papers
(a) Service: When Required.
(1) In General. Unless these rules provide
otherwise, each of the following papers
must be served on every party:
(A) an order stating that service is
required;
(B) a pleading filed after the original
complaint;
(C) a discovery paper required to be
served on a party, unless the court
orders otherwise;
(D) a written motion, except one that
may be heard ex parte; and
(E) a written notice, appearance,
demand, or offer of judgment, or any
similar paper.
(2) If a Party Fails to Appear. No service is
required on a party who is in default for
failing to appear. But a pleading that
asserts a new claim for relief against such
a party must be served on that party under
RCFC 4.
(3) Seizing Property. [Not used.]

4

(1) Required Filings; Certificate of Service.
(A) Papers after the Complaint. Any
paper after the complaint that is
required to be served must be filed no
later than a reasonable time after
service. But disclosures under RCFC
26(a)(1) or (2) and the following
discovery requests and responses
must not be filed until they are used
in the proceeding or the court orders
filing: depositions, interrogatories,
requests for documents or tangible
things or to permit entry onto land,
and requests for admission.
(B) Certificate of Service. No certificate
of service is required when a paper is
served by filing it with the court’s
electronic-filing system. When a
paper that is required to be served is
served by other means:
(i) if the paper is filed, a certificate
of service must be filed with it;
and
(ii) if the paper is not filed, a
certificate of service need not be
filed unless filing is required by
court order.
(2) Nonelectronic Filing. A paper not filed
electronically is filed by delivering it:
(A) to the clerk; or
(B) to a judge who agrees to accept it for
filing, and who must then note the
filing date on the paper and promptly
send it to the clerk.
(3) Electronic Filing and Signing.
(A) By a Represented Person—
Generally Required; Exceptions. A
person represented by an attorney
must file electronically in the court’s
electronic-filing system, unless nonelectronic filing is allowed by the
court for good cause or is otherwise
allowed under Appendix E to these
rules.
(B) By an Unrepresented Person—
When Allowed or Required. A
person not represented by an
attorney:
(i) may file electronically by e-mail
consistent with Appendix E to
these rules;

(b) Service: How Made.
(1) Serving an Attorney. If a party is
represented by an attorney:
(A) service under this rule must be made
on the attorney unless the court
orders service on the party; and
(B) the attorney is considered to have
consented to service by e-mail at the
e-mail address listed on the docket.
(2) Service in General. A paper is served
under this rule by:
(A) handing it to the person;
(B) leaving it:
(i) at the person’s office with a clerk
or other person in charge or, if no
one is in charge, in a
conspicuous place in the office;
or
(ii) if the person has no office or the
office is closed, at the person’s
dwelling or usual place of abode
with someone of suitable age and
discretion who resides there;
(C) mailing it to the person’s last known
address—in which event service is
complete upon mailing;
(D) leaving it with the court clerk if the
person has no known address;
(E) sending it to a registered user by:
(i) filing it on the public docket with
the court’s electronic-filing
system; or
(ii) if it is a sealed or restricted
document, sending it by other
electronic means that the person
consented to in writing—in
either of which events service is
complete upon filing or sending,
but is not effective if the filer or
sender learns that it did not reach
the person to be served; or
(F) delivering it by any other means that
the person consented to in writing—
in which event service is complete
when the person making service
delivers it to the agency designated
to make delivery.
(3) Using Court Facilities. [Abrogated in
FRCP.]
(c) Serving Numerous Defendants. [Not used.]
(d) Filing.
5

RCFC 5 cont.

(ii) may file electronically in the
court’s electronic-filing system
only if allowed by court order;
and
(iii) may be required to file
electronically in the court’s
electronic-filing system only by
court order.
(C) Signing. A filing made through a
person’s electronic-filing account
and authorized by that person,
together with that person’s name on
a signature block, constitutes the
person’s signature.
(D) Same as a Written Paper. A paper
filed electronically is a written
paper for purposes of these rules.
(4) Acceptance by the Clerk. The clerk must
not refuse to file a paper solely because it
is not in the form prescribed by these
rules.

Such a decision, when made, will be
accomplished through an amendment to the
rules. Until the issuance of such amendment, the
clerk’s office will not accept electronic filings.
Individual chambers, however, may allow
counsel to transmit “courtesy” copies of filed
documents by electronic means.*
Third, subdivision (e) also adds the final
sentence from FRCP 5(e) stating that “[t]he clerk
shall not refuse to accept for filing any paper
presented for that purpose solely because it is not
presented in proper form as required by these
rules.” The addition of this language to the rule
was not intended to alter the court’s practice of
treating all non-conforming complaints as filed
upon receipt in the clerk’s office while referring
other non-conforming papers received in the
clerk’s office to a judge for instructions as to
whether to permit their filing or to require
counsel’s correction of the papers’ defects.
Finally, former subdivision (e), titled “Proof
of Service,” no longer appears in FRCP 5. In
order to conform more closely to FRCP 5, former
subdivision (e) was deleted from this rule and
now appears as RCFC 5.1.
________________
*On March 17, 2003, the court adopted General
Order No. 42A instituting an interim program
requiring electronic filing for some cases. The
court anticipates that electronic filing procedures
will be incorporated into the rules.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, July 1,
2019, July 31, 2023, July 27, 2026.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The changes made to RCFC 5 were intended
to bring the rule into closer conformity with
FRCP 5. Thus, in addition to a change in
sequence, changes in text include the following:
First, the text of subdivision (b) has been
modified to reflect the December 1, 2001,
changes to the FRCP, which significantly affect
organization and which also make possible
consensual service by electronic means. In
addition, the clause “but filing is not” has been
deleted from the last sentence of that subdivision.
The deleted language was not in conformity with
the FRCP. Filing is not complete on mailing;
filing is controlled by subdivisions (d) and (e) of
this rule.
Second, subdivision (e) adopts the language
of the FRCP recognizing the appropriateness of
permitting papers to be “filed, signed, or verified
by electronic means that are consistent with
technical standards, if any, that the Judicial
Conference of the United States establishes.” It
should be noted that no decision has yet been
made by the court to implement electronic filing.
RCFC 5 cont.

2007 Amendment
RCFC 5 has been amended to reflect the
court’s requirement of filing by electronic means
subject to reasonable exceptions. The amendment
reflects the development of electronic filing and
parallels a similar change in FRCP 5(e).
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 5 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, the phrase “except one that may
be heard ex parte” has been added to RCFC
5(a)(1)(D) to conform to the FRCP.
2019 Amendment
RCFC 5 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 5 that
became effective December 1, 2018.

6

(b) Exemptions
from
the
Redaction
Requirement. The redaction requirement
does not apply to the following:
(1) a financial-account number that
identifies the property allegedly subject
to forfeiture in a forfeiture proceeding;
(2) the record of an administrative or agency
proceeding;
(3) the official record of a state-court
proceeding;
(4) the record of a court or tribunal, if that
record was not subject to the redaction
requirement when originally filed; and
(5) a filing covered by RCFC 5.2(d).
(c) Limitations on Remote Access to
Electronic Files; Social-Security Appeals
and Immigration Cases. [Not used.]
(d) Filings Made Under Seal. The court may
order that a filing be made under seal without
redaction. The court may later unseal the
filing or order the person who made the filing
to file a redacted version for the public
record.
(e) Protective Orders. For good cause, the court
may by order in a case:
(1) require
redaction
of
additional
information; or
(2) limit or prohibit remote electronic access
to a document filed with the court.
(f) Option for Additional Unredacted Filing
Under Seal. A person making a redacted
filing may also file an unredacted copy under
seal. The court must retain the unredacted
copy as part of the record.
(g) Option for Filing a Reference List. A filing
that contains redacted information may be
filed together with a reference list that
identifies each item of redacted information
and specifies an appropriate identifier that
uniquely corresponds to each item listed. The
list must be filed under seal and may be
amended as of right. Any reference in the
case to a listed identifier will be construed to
refer to the corresponding item of
information.
(h) Waiver of Protection of Identifiers. A
person waives the protection of RCFC 5.2(a)
as to the person’s own information by filing
it without redaction and not under seal.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 5(d)(3) has been amended to clarify
that a person represented by an attorney must file
electronically in the court’s electronic-filing
system, and a person not represented by an
attorney may file electronically via e-mail
consistent with Appendix E to these rules but may
file electronically in the court’s electronic-filing
system only if allowed or required by court order.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 5(b)(1) has been amended to specify
that each attorney of record is considered to have
consented to service by e-mail.
RCFC 5(b)(2)(E) has been amended to
clarify that service can be effectuated via the
court’s electronic-filing system for publicly
available documents only; if the filing is sealed or
restricted to the public, it must be served by other
electronic means.
RCFC 5(d)(1)(B) has been amended by
removing the phrase “or within a reasonable time
after service” and to require the certificate of
service to be filed with the underlying
submission.

## RCFC 5.1
Constitutional Challenge to a

Statute—Notice, Certification, and
Intervention [Not used.]

## RCFC 5.2
Privacy Protection For Filings

Made with the Court
(a) Redacted Filings. Unless the court orders
otherwise, in an electronic or paper filing
with the court that contains an individual’s
social-security number, taxpayeridentification number, or birth date, the
name of an individual known to be a minor,
or a financial-account number, a party or
nonparty making the filing may include
only:
(1) the last four digits of the social-security
number and taxpayer-identification
number (see RCFC 9(m) when pleading
a claim for a tax refund);
(2) the year of the individual’s birth;
(3) the minor’s initials; and
(4) the last four digits of the financialaccount number.

7

RCFC 5.1 and 5.2

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 5.1 has no FRCP counterpart. The text
of this rule formerly appeared as subdivision (e)
of former RCFC 5.

(Added Nov. 3, 2008; as amended July 2, 2018,
July 27, 2026.)
Rules Committee Note
2008 Adoption
New RCFC 5.2 has been added to correspond
to the adoption of the same rule in the FRCP
(which became effective December 1, 2007).
(The redaction of personal information as
addressed in RCFC 5.2 also appears in Appendix
E (“Electronic Case Filing Procedure”),
paragraph 26 (“Personal Information”).)

2007 Amendment
RCFC 5.2 formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 5.1 and has been renumbered in light of the
adoption of FRCP 5.1, effective December 1,
2006, to preserve the consistency in numbering
systems between the court’s rules and the FRCP.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 5.3 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
RCFC 5.3 formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 5.2 and has been renumbered to
accommodate the court’s adoption of FRCP 5.2
(which became effective December 1, 2007) and
to preserve the consistency in numbering systems
between the court’s rules and the FRCP.

2018 Amendment
RCFC 5.2(a) has been amended to reference
RCFC 9(m) which includes additional pleading
requirements for a tax refund claim.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 5.2(e)(2) has been amended by
removing the word “non-party” from the remote
electronic access limitation because the court
may limit or prohibit remote electronic access by
a party as well as a non-party.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 5.3 has been amended to conform to
RCFC 5(d)(1)(B), which was added to RCFC 5 in
2019 in accordance with the corresponding
changes to FRCP 5 that became effective
December 1, 2018.

## RCFC 5.3
Proof of Service

(a) In General. When a certificate of service is
required pursuant to RCFC 5(d)(1)(B),
service is made by the party, attorney of
record, or any other person acting under the
attorney of record’s direction by executing a
certificate of service containing the following
information:
(1) the day and manner of service;
(2) the person or entity served; and
(3) the method of service employed, e.g., in
person, by mail, or by electronic or other
means.
(b) Certificate of Service. The certificate of
service must be attached to the end of any
original filing.
(c) Amending the Certificate of Service. The
certificate of service may be amended at any
time unless doing so would result in material
prejudice to the substantial rights of any
party.

2026 Amendment
RCFC 5.3(b) has been amended by removing
the phrase “or filed within a reasonable time after
service” and to require the certificate of service to
be filed with the underlying submission.

## RCFC 5.4
Contents and Length of a Brief or

Memorandum
(a) Contents.
(1) In General. A brief or memorandum
must be compact, concise, logically
arranged, and free of burdensome,
irrelevant, immaterial, and scandalous
matter. The court may disregard a brief
or memorandum that fails to comply with
this rule.
(2) Initial Brief or Memorandum. Except in
a brief or memorandum of 10 pages or
fewer or in pretrial findings under
Appendix A, the first brief or
memorandum must contain the following

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
renumbered Nov. 15, 2007; as amended Nov. 3,
2008, July 31, 2023, July 27, 2026.)

RCFC 5.3 and 5.4

8

the page number at which the item or
exhibit appears.
(3) Opposing Brief or Memorandum. An
opposing or answering brief must
conform to the requirements set forth in
RCFC 5.4(a)(2), except that the items
referred to in 5.4(a)(2)(C) and (D) need
not be included unless the party is
dissatisfied with
the other side’s
presentation.
(4) Reply Brief or Memorandum. A reply
brief or memorandum must conform to
the requirements of RCFC 5.4(a)(3).
(5) Cross-Motions.
(A) Initial Motion. Any cross-motion
must:
(i) conform to the requirements of
RCFC 5.4(a)(3);
(ii) be contained in the same
document as the response to the
original motion.
(B) Response. A response to a crossmotion must be contained in the
same document as the reply to the
original motion.
(b) Length.
(1) Initial Brief or Memorandum. Except
by leave of the court on motion, a party’s
initial brief or memorandum must not
exceed 40 pages (50 pages for a crossmovant), not including:
(A) the table of contents;
(B) the list of citations to constitutional
provisions,
treaties,
statutes,
regulations, and cases; and
(C) any appendix setting out the
pertinent
portion
of
any
constitutional provisions, treaties,
statutes, regulations, agency and
board decisions, court decisions,
excerpts from transcripts of
testimony,
and
documentary
exhibits.
(2) Reply Brief or Memorandum. Except by
leave of the court on motion, a reply brief
or memorandum must not exceed 20
pages (30 pages when a response to a
motion is included).
(3) Relying on a Previously Filed Brief or
Memorandum. A party must not
incorporate a brief or memorandum by

items, arranged under proper headings
and in the following order:
(A) a table of contents, including the
specific contents of any appendix or
appendices to the brief or
memorandum, listing a description
of every item or exhibit being
reproduced in the appendix and the
page number at which the item or
exhibit appears;
(B) a table of cited constitutional
provisions,
treaties,
statutes,
regulations, and cases, giving the
volume and page number of the
edition where each may be found
(using the United States Claims
Court Reporter or the Federal Claims
Reporter for all published United
States Claims Court and United
States Court of Federal Claims
orders and opinions) and arranging
the cases in alphabetical order;
(C) a concise statement of each question
presented;
(D) a concise statement of the case,
making reference to specific
findings, stipulations of fact, or other
pertinent portions of the record and
setting out verbatim the pertinent
portions
of
the
applicable
constitutional provisions, treaties,
statutes, regulations, and texts of all
administrative decisions directly
involved in the case (unless
previously reproduced in or as an
exhibit to the complaint);
(E) a clear statement of the argument,
setting forth the points of fact and
law being presented and the
authorities relied upon;
(F) a concise conclusion, indicating the
relief sought; and
(G) any appendix to the brief or
memorandum,
numbered
consecutively within itself to enable
the court to find and read the material
more easily and, if set forth in a
volume separate from the brief or
memorandum, containing a table of
contents with a description of every
item or exhibit being reproduced and
9

RCFC 5.4 cont.

beginning of the accompanying brief or
memorandum.
Third, subdivision (b)(4), relating to “a
motion for leave to exceed the page limitation,”
was deemed unduly burdensome and was
therefore stricken.

reference; the court will disregard any
such incorporation. To rely upon a
previously filed brief or memorandum, a
party must:
(A) reproduce the brief or memorandum
(or, when appropriate, the selected
excerpts of such document) in an
appendix;
(B) identify the total number of pages
considered relevant in a footnote
included on the first page of the brief
or memorandum; and
(C) include the number of pages
identified when calculating the
maximum allowable pages set forth
in RCFC 5.4(b)(1) and (2).
(c) Citations.
(1) In General. All citations must follow the
formats in the most recent edition of The
Bluebook: A Uniform System of
Citation.
(2) Citation by Document Number.
(A) References to documents filed in the
court’s electronic-filing system must
follow one of the citation formats
established by the court.
(B) Citation formats are posted on the
court’s website or may be obtained
by calling the clerk’s office.

2007 Amendment
RCFC 5.3 formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 5.2 and has been renumbered in light of the
adoption of FRCP 5.1, effective December 1,
2006, to preserve the consistency in numbering
systems between the court’s rules and the FRCP.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 5.4 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, to improve organizational
structure, the subdivision dealing with the
contents of cross-motions, formerly included in
these rules as RCFC 7.2(e) (“Time for Filing”),
has been included as paragraph 5 to RCFC 5.4(a).
RCFC 5.4 formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 5.3 and has been renumbered to
accommodate the court’s adoption of FRCP 5.2
(which became effective December 1, 2007) and
to preserve the consistency in numbering systems
between the court’s rules and the FRCP.
2020 Amendment
RCFC 5.4(c) has been added to address
citation formats.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
renumbered Nov. 15, 2007; as amended Nov. 3,
2008; Aug. 3, 2020.)

## RCFC 5.5
Format of Filings and Required

Information
(a) In General. All papers filed with the clerk
must conform to the requirements of this rule.
(b) Duplication. Any method of duplication
must produce clear black images on white
paper and must conform to the requirements
of RCFC 5.5(c).
(c) Size and Form.
(1) Paper Size and Type. All papers filed
with the clerk:
(A) must be printed on 8 1/2 by 11-inch
paper;
(B) must contain type matter of letter
quality, except for those papers
included as exhibits; and

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 5.2 has no FRCP counterpart. The rule
formerly appeared in these rules as RCFC 83.1.
The renumbering of RCFC 83.1 was intended to
reflect its more logical placement in the
organizational structure of the court’s rules.
Several changes have been made to the rule;
they include:
First, the deletion from subdivision (a) of
language identifying the plaintiff’s brief or
memorandum as “the first brief or memorandum”
normally to be filed.
Second, subparagraphs (A) and (G) of
subdivision (a) were revised to indicate that any
index to a separate appendix should be included
both at the beginning of the appendix and at the
RCFC 5.5

10

(h) Bid Protest Cases. The words “Bid Protest”
must be included in the caption of all filings
directly below the name of the court.

(C) must be of sufficient quality that the
typed material does not bleed
through the page.
(2) Type Size. The type size for text and
footnotes must be no smaller than 12
point.
(3) Margins. Margins must not be less than
1 inch on each side.
(4) Spacing. Text must be double spaced,
except that quoted and indented material
and footnotes may be single spaced.
(5) Binding. A paper filing must be bound in
any manner that is secure, does not
obscure text, and is easily removable to
permit scanning using an automatic
document feeder.
(6) Numbering. All pages, including
appendices, must be numbered in large
distinct type that appears in the center of
the bottom margin of the page.
(d) Number of Copies; Signature; Cover
Sheet.
(1) Complaint.
(A) Paper Form. Plaintiff must file one
copy of the complaint that includes:
(i) an original signature; and
(ii) a completed cover sheet (see
Appendix of Forms, Form 2).
(B) Electronic Form. If plaintiff is not
appearing pro se pursuant to
RCFC 83.1, plaintiff may file the
complaint, along with a completed
cover sheet, electronically in
compliance with Appendix E to these
rules.
(2) Subsequent Filings. Except for
electronic filings under Appendix E, for
every filing, a party must file one copy
that includes an original signature.
(e) Date. Each paper must bear the date it is
signed on the signature page.
(f) Electronic Mail Address and Telephone
Number. The electronic mail address and
telephone number (including area code) of
the attorney of record must appear directly
below the signature line of every filing.
(g) Name of Judge. In all filings other than the
complaint, the name of the judge assigned to
the case must be included directly below the
docket number.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended July 1, 2004; as renumbered Nov. 15,
2007; as amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 15, 2011,
July 2, 2012, Aug. 3, 2015, July 1, 2019, July 31,
2023, July 27, 2026.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
New RCFC 5.3 has no FRCP counterpart.
The rule formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 82 and 83. The consolidation and
renumbering of RCFC 82 and 83 were intended
to reflect their more logical placement in the
organizational structure of the court’s rules.
In addition to the renumbering, the text of
former RCFC 82 has been modified in several
respects: First, subdivision (a) has been modified
by deleting the last sentence of that subdivision
which read, “[t]he clerk shall refuse to file any
paper which is not in substantial conformity with
this rule or not in clear type.” The deletion
corresponds to the change made in RCFC 5(e)
directing that “[t]he clerk shall not refuse to
accept for filing any paper presented for that
purpose solely because it is not presented in
proper form.” However, as noted in the Advisory
Committee Note to FRCP 5(e), the “clerk may of
course advise a party or counsel that a particular
instrument is not in proper form, and may be
directed to so inform the court.”
Second, subdivision (c) has been modified to
eliminate certain redundancies, to fix the type
size, and to clarify binding and pagination
requirements. Appendices will now be subject to
pagination. The binding requirement changes
were intended to discourage rubber bands, paper
clips, and other non-secure binding.
Third, former subdivision (e), now
subdivision (f), has been amended to include a
requirement listing a facsimile number for the
attorney of record.
Fourth, subdivision (d) was added to this rule
to incorporate the “number of copies”
requirement that formerly appeared as RCFC 83,
as well as the requirement formerly found in
RCFC 3(c) regarding the number of copies to be
filed when filing a complaint.
11

RCFC 5.5 cont.

2012 Amendment
RCFC 5.5(d)(2) has been amended to
eliminate the requirement that parties file paper
copies of notices of appeal in electronic cases.

Finally, subdivision (g) was also added. The
text of this subdivision formerly appeared as part
of RCFC 10(a).
2004 Amendment
Subdivision (h) has been added to the text of
RCFC 5.3 to facilitate case management and
administrative record-keeping requirements.

2015 Amendment
RCFC 5.5(d)(1) has been amended to allow a
plaintiff not appearing pro se to file a complaint
electronically.

2007 Amendment
RCFC 5.4 formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 5.3 and has renumbered in light of the
adoption of FRCP 5.1, effective December 1,
2006, to preserve the consistency in numbering
systems between the court’s rules and the FRCP.

2019 Amendment
RCFC 5.5(d) has been amended to remove
the requirement that when a complaint exceeds
20 pages, a copy must also be filed in electronic
form using a disc in CD-ROM format.
Subdivision (f) has also been amended to
eliminate the reference to facsimile numbers.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 5.5 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, language has been added to
clarify that the rule’s requirements extend to all
filings, whether in paper or electronic form,
except as specifically noted.
Finally, the sentences “Such pages need not
be justified on the right margin” from former
RCFC 5.4(c) and “All copies shall be identical, or
otherwise conformed, to the original” from
former RCFC 5.4(d) have been deleted as
unnecessary.
RCFC 5.5 formerly appeared in these rules as
RCFC 5.4 and has been renumbered to
accommodate the court’s adoption of FRCP 5.2
(which became effective December 1, 2007) and
to preserve the consistency in numbering systems
between the court’s rules and the FRCP.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 5.5(d) has been amended to eliminate
the 2-copy requirement for any paper filing and
the 4-copy requirement for any filing in a
congressional reference case, as well as to clarify
that a paper complaint must contain an original
signature.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 5.5(c) has been amended to refine the
size and binding requirements prescribed in
paragraphs (1) and (5).

## RCFC 6


Computing and Extending Time;
Time for Motion Papers
(a) Computing Time. The following rules apply
in computing any time period specified in
these rules, in any court order, or in any
statute that does not specify a method of
computing time.
(1) Period Stated in Days or a Longer Unit.
When the period is stated in days or a
longer unit of time:
(A) exclude the day of the event that
triggers the period;
(B) count
every
day,
including
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays; and
(C) include the last day of the period, but
if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, the period continues
to run until the end of the next day

2011 Amendment
RCFC 5.5(d)(1)(A) has been amended by
reducing the required number of copies of a
complaint to be filed from an original and 7
copies to an original and 2 copies. Additionally,
subparagraph (d)(1)(B) has been added to require
a plaintiff, except a plaintiff appearing pro se, to
also file one copy of the complaint in electronic
form using a disc in CD-ROM format when the
complaint exceeds 20 pages.
Finally, subdivision (f) has been amended to
require the attorney of record to include an
electronic mail address directly below the
signature line of every filing.

RCFC 6

12

Independence Day, Labor Day,
Columbus Day, Veterans’ Day,
Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas
Day; and
(B) any other day declared a holiday by
the President or Congress.
(b) Extending Time.
(1) In General. When an act may or must be
done within a specified time, the court
may, for good cause, extend the time:
(A) with or without motion or notice if
the court acts, or if a request is made,
before the original time or its
extension expires; or
(B) on motion made after the time has
expired if the party failed to act
because of excusable neglect.
(2) Exceptions. The court must not extend
the time to act under RCFC 52(b), 59(b),
(d), and (e), and 60(b).
(c) Motions, Notices of Hearing, and
Affidavits. [Not used.]
(d) Additional Time After Certain Kinds of
Service. When a party may or must act within
a specified time after being served and
service is made under RCFC 5(b)(2)(C)
(mail), (D) (leaving with the clerk), or (F)
(other means consented to), 3 days are added
after the period would otherwise expire under
RCFC 6(a).

that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday.
(2) Period Stated in Hours. When the period
is stated in hours:
(A) begin counting immediately on the
occurrence of the event that triggers
the period;
(B) count every hour, including hours
during intermediate Saturdays,
Sundays, and legal holidays; and
(C) if the period would end on a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday,
the period continues to run until the
same time on the next day that is not
a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(3) Inaccessibility of the Clerk’s Office.
Unless the court orders otherwise, if the
clerk’s office is inaccessible:
(A) on the last day for filing under RCFC
6(a)(1), then the time for filing is
extended to the first accessible day
that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday; or
(B) during the last hour for filing under
RCFC 6(a)(2), then the time for
filing is extended to the same time on
the first accessible day that is not a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(4) “Last Day” Defined. Unless a different
time is set by a statute or court order, the
last day ends:
(A) for electronic filing, at midnight in
the Eastern Time Zone; and
(B) for filing by other means, when the
clerk’s office is scheduled to close,
subject to the provision for afterhours filing permitted under RCFC
77.1(a).
(5) “Next Day” Defined. The “next day” is
determined by continuing to count
forward when the period is measured
after an event and backward when
measured before an event.
(6) “Legal Holiday” Defined. “Legal
holiday” means:
(A) the day set aside by statute for
observing New Year’s Day,
Inauguration Day, Martin Luther
King Jr.’s Birthday, Washington’s
Birthday, Memorial Day, Juneteenth
National
Independence
Day,

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended June 20, 2006, Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11,
2010, Aug. 1, 2017, July 29, 2024.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 6 has been changed to conform to
FRCP 6. In particular, that part of subdivision (b)
which formerly specified the content of motions
for enlargement has been moved to a new RCFC
6.1, “Enlargements of Time.”
2006 Amendment
Subdivision (e) has been amended to reflect
the corresponding changes to FRCP 6(e) that
became effective December 1, 2005.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 6 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

13

RCFC 6 cont.

2010 Amendment
RCFC 6 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 6 that
became effective December 1, 2009. These
changes govern the computation of any time
period specified in these rules, in any court order,
or in any statute that does not specify a method of
computing time. For a comprehensive
explanation of the time- computation changes,
see the 2009 Committee Note to FRCP 6.
In addition, the definition of “last day” in
subparagraph (a)(4)(B) has been amended to
include a reference to the after-hours filing
permitted under RCFC 77.1(a).
Finally, paragraph (b)(2) has been amended
to delete the reference to RCFC 54(d)(1).

the content of the reasons offered in support of a
motion for enlargement of time, has been stricken
as unnecessary.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 6.1 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2023 Amendment
RCFC 6.1(b), requiring the moving party to
communicate with opposing counsel before filing
a motion for enlargement, has been deleted in
light of the adoption of new RCFC 7.3, titled
“Duty to Confer on Nondispositive Motions.”

2017 Amendment
RCFC 6(d) has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding change to FRCP 6 that
became effective December 1, 2016.
2024 Amendment
RCFC 6(a)(6) was updated in 2022 to include
Juneteenth National Independence Day as a legal
holiday, and the update was treated as an
administrative amendment that did not require a
committee note. That same change was
subsequently made to FRCP 6(a)(6) and became
effective December 1, 2023.

## RCFC 6.1
Motion for an Enlargement of Time

A motion for an enlargement of time must set
forth:
(a) the specific number of additional days
requested;
(b) the date to which the enlargement is to run;
(c) the total number of days granted in any
previously filed motions for enlargement;
and
(d) the reason for the enlargement.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 31, 2023.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
New RCFC 6.1 has no FRCP counterpart.
The text of the new rule formerly appeared in
these rules as part of RCFC 6(b). However, the
language in former RCFC 6(b), which addressed
RCFC 6.1

14

TITLE III. PLEADINGS AND MOTIONS

nongovernmental corporation that seeks to
intervene must file a statement that:
(1) identifies any parent corporation and any
publicly held corporation owning 10% or
more of its stock; or
(2) states that there is no such corporation.
(b) Time to File; Supplemental Filing. A party,
intervenor, or proposed intervenor must:
(1) file the disclosure statement with its first
appearance, pleading, petition, motion,
response, or other request addressed to
the court; and
(2) promptly file a supplemental statement if
any required information changes.

## RCFC 7


Pleadings Allowed; Form of
Motions and Other Papers
(a) Pleadings. Only these pleadings are allowed:
(1) a complaint;
(2) an answer to a complaint;
(3) an answer to a counterclaim designated
as a counterclaim;
(4) a reply to any offset or plea of fraud
contained in the answer;
(5) a third-party pleading permitted under
RCFC 14; and
(6) if the court orders one, a reply to an
answer.
(b) Motions and Other Papers.
(1) In General. A request for a court order
must be made by motion. Any motion,
objection, or response may be
accompanied by a brief or memorandum
and, if necessary, affidavits supporting
the motion. The motion must:
(A) be in writing unless made during a
hearing or trial;
(B) state with particularity the grounds
for seeking the order; and
(C) state the relief sought.
(2) Form. The rules governing captions and
other matters of form in pleadings apply
to motions and other papers.

(Added Sept. 15, 2003; as amended Nov. 3, 2008,
July 31, 2023.)
Rules Committee Notes
2003 Adoption
RCFC 7.1 has been added to correspond to
the adoption of the same rule in the FRCP.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 7.1 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2023 Amendment
RCFC 7.1 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 7.1
regarding disclosure statements for proposed
intervenors and intervenors that became effective
December 1, 2022.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

## RCFC 7.2
Time for Filing

(a) In General.
(1) Responses and Objections. Unless
otherwise provided in these rules or by
order of the court, a response or an
objection to a written motion must be
filed within 14 days after service of the
motion.
(2) Replies. A reply to a response or an
objection may be filed within 7 days after
service of the response or objection.
(b) Motions Under RCFC 12(b), 12(c), 52.1,
and 56.
(1) Responses. A response to any of these
motions must be filed within 28 days
after service of the motion.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor grammatical changes have been
introduced.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 7 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, the provision included in former
paragraph (b)(1) stating that a motion may “be
accompanied by a proposed order” has been
omitted in favor of full conformance with
FRCP 7.

## RCFC 7.1
Disclosure Statement

A
(a) Who
Must
File;
Contents.
nongovernmental corporate party or a
15

RCFC 7, 7.1 and 7.2

## RCFC 7.3
Duty to Confer on Nondispositive

Motions
(a) In General. Before filing any motion not
described in RCFC 7.2(b), counsel for the
moving party must make a reasonable and
good faith effort to discuss the anticipated
motion with opposing counsel to determine
whether there is any opposition to the relief
sought and, if there is, to narrow the areas of
disagreement. The duty to confer also applies
to nonincarcerated parties appearing pro se.
(b) Contents. The motion must:
(1) include a certification that the movant
has in good faith conferred or attempted
to confer with opposing counsel; and
(2) state whether the motion is opposed or, if
opposing counsel cannot be consulted,
include an explanation of the efforts that
were made to do so.

(2) Replies. A reply to a response may be
filed within 14 days after service of the
response.
(c) Cross-Motions.
(1) Initial Motion. A cross-motion may be
filed within the time allowed for
responses in RCFC 7.2(a) and (b).
(2) Response and Reply. A party will have
the same amount of time to respond and
reply to a cross-motion as to an original
motion.
(d) Motions Filed by Leave of Court. The time
for filing a response to a motion filed by leave
of court on motion by a party will run from
the date of filing and not from the date of
service.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Sept. 15, 2003, June 20, 2006, Nov. 3,
2008.)

(Added July 31, 2023.)

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision and 2003 Amendment
RCFC 7.2 has no FRCP counterpart. The rule
formerly appeared in these rules as RCFC 83.2
and, following the court’s May 1, 2002, revision
of its rules, as RCFC 7.1. The first renumbering
of the rule (from RCFC 83.2 to RCFC 7.1) was
intended to reflect its more logical placement in
the organizational structure of the court’s rules;
the second renumbering (from RCFC 7.1 to
RCFC 7.2) accommodates the court’s adoption of
FRCP 7.1 effective December 1, 2002, and
preserves the consistency in numbering systems
between the court’s rules and the FRCP.

Rules Committee Note
2023 Adoption
RCFC 7.3 has been added to require that in
every case initiated by a nonincarcerated
plaintiff, a party seeking to file a nondispositive
motion must first meet and confer with the
opposing party.

## RCFC 8
General Rules of Pleading

(a) Claim for Relief. A pleading that states a
claim for relief must contain:
(1) a short and plain statement of the grounds
for the court’s jurisdiction, unless the
court already has jurisdiction and the
claim needs no new jurisdictional
support;
(2) a short and plain statement of the claim
showing that the pleader is entitled to
relief; and
(3) a demand for the relief sought, which
may include relief in the alternative or
different types of relief.
(b) Defenses; Admissions and Denials.
(1) In General. In responding to a pleading,
a party must:
(A) state in short and plain terms its
defenses to each claim asserted
against it; and

2006 Amendment
A cross-reference in subdivision (c) was
revised to accord with the addition of RCFC 52.1.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 7.2 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, to improve organizational
structure, the subdivision dealing with the
contents of cross-motions, formerly included in
these rules as RCFC 7.2(e), has been moved to
RCFC 5.4(a).

RCFC 7.3 and 8

16

(B) admit or deny the allegations
asserted against it by an opposing
party.
(2) Denials—Responding to the Substance.
A denial must fairly respond to the
substance of the allegation.
(3) General and Specific Denials. A party
that intends in good faith to deny all the
allegations of a pleading—including the
jurisdictional grounds—may do so by a
general denial. A party that does not
intend to deny all the allegations must
either specifically deny designated
allegations or generally deny all except
those specifically admitted.
(4) Denying Part of an Allegation. A party
that intends in good faith to deny only
part of an allegation must admit the part
that is true and deny the rest.
(5) Lacking Knowledge or Information. A
party that lacks knowledge or
information sufficient to form a belief
about the truth of an allegation must so
state, and the statement has the effect of
a denial.
(6) Effect of Failing to Deny. An
allegation—other than one relating to the
amount of damages—is admitted if a
responsive pleading is required and the
allegation is not denied. If a responsive
pleading is not required, an allegation is
considered denied or avoided.
(c) Affirmative Defenses.
(1) In General. In responding to a pleading,
a party must affirmatively state any
avoidance or affirmative defense,
including:
• accord and satisfaction;
• arbitration and award;
• assumption of risk;
• contributory negligence;
• duress;
• estoppel;
• failure of consideration;
• fraud;
• illegality;
• laches;
• license;
• payment;
• release;
• res judicata;

• statute of frauds;
• statute of limitations; and
• waiver.
(2) Mistaken Designation. If a party
mistakenly designates a defense as a
counterclaim, or a counterclaim as a
defense, the court must, if justice
requires, treat the pleading as though it
were correctly designated, and may
impose terms for doing so.
(d) Pleading to Be Concise and Direct;
Alternative Statements; Inconsistency.
(1) In General. Each allegation must be
simple, concise, and direct. No technical
form is required.
(2) Alternative Statements of a Claim or
Defense. A party may set out 2 or more
statements of a claim or defense
alternatively or hypothetically, either in a
single count or defense or in separate
ones. If a party makes alternative
statements, the pleading is sufficient if
any one of them is sufficient.
(3) Inconsistent Claims or Defenses. A
party may state as many separate claims
or defenses as it has, regardless of
consistency.
(e) Construing Pleadings. Pleadings must be
construed so as to do justice.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes have been made in
subdivisions (b) and (c) to conform to FRCP 8. In
addition, subdivision (c) was amended to require
the pleading, as an affirmative defense, of
assumption of risk and contributory negligence.
Although these defenses are typically associated
with tort claims (i.e., with claims outside this
court’s jurisdiction), there can be circumstances
in which reliance on these defenses would be
appropriate, for example, in congressional
reference cases, in some aspects of contract
litigation, and with respect to counterclaims
asserted pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2508.

17

RCFC 8 cont.

(f) Time and Place. An allegation of time or
place is material when testing the sufficiency
of a pleading.
(g) Special Damages. If an item of special
damage is claimed, it must be specifically
stated.
(h) Admiralty or Maritime Claim. [Not used.]
(i) Inverse Condemnation Claim. In pleading
a claim for just compensation under the Fifth
Amendment of the United States
Constitution, a party must identify the
specific property interest alleged to have
been taken by the United States.
(j) Citation to Statutes, Regulations, and
Orders. In pleading a claim founded on a
statute, regulation, or executive order, a party
must include the citation to the act of
Congress, regulation of an executive
department or agency, or Executive Order of
the President on which the claim is founded.
(k) Contract or Treaty. In pleading a claim
founded on a contract or treaty, a party must
identify the substantive provisions of the
contract or treaty on which the party relies. In
lieu of a description, the party may annex to
the complaint a copy of the contract or treaty,
indicating the relevant provisions.
(l) Patent Claim. In pleading a patent
infringement, a party must describe the patent
or patents alleged to be infringed.
(m) Tax Refund Claim. In pleading a claim for a
tax refund, a party must:
(1) file the unredacted pleading under seal
(without a motion to file under seal) and
concurrently file on the public docket a
redacted version of the pleading that
conforms to RCFC 5.2 and also redacts
the identification number of any
taxpayer; and
(2) include:
(A) a copy of the claim for refund, and
(B) a statement identifying:
(i) the tax year(s) for which a refund
is sought;
(ii) the amount, date, and place of
each payment to be refunded;
(iii) the date and place the return was
filed, if any;
(iv) the
name,
address,
and
identification number of the

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 8 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
RCFC 8(c)(1) has been amended by deleting
“discharge in bankruptcy” from the list of
affirmative defenses in accordance with the
corresponding change to FRCP 8 that became
effective December 1, 2009.

## RCFC 9
Pleading Special Matters

(a) Capacity or Authority to Sue; Legal
Existence.
(1) In General. Except when required to
show that the court has jurisdiction, a
pleading need not allege:
(A) a party’s capacity to sue or be sued;
(B) a party’s authority to sue or be sued
in a representative capacity; or
(C) the legal existence of an organized
association of persons that is made a
party.
(2) Raising Those Issues. To raise any of
those issues, a party must do so by a
specific denial, which must state any
supporting facts that are peculiarly
within the party’s knowledge.
(b) Fraud or Mistake; Conditions of Mind. In
alleging fraud or mistake, a party must state
with particularity the circumstances
constituting fraud or mistake. Malice, intent,
knowledge, and other conditions of a
person’s mind may be alleged generally.
(c) Conditions
Precedent.
In
pleading
conditions precedent, it suffices to allege
generally that all conditions precedent have
occurred or been performed. But when
denying that a condition precedent has
occurred or been performed, a party must do
so with particularity.
(d) Official Document or Act. In pleading an
official document or official act, it suffices to
allege that the document was legally issued
or the act legally done.
(e) Judgment. In pleading a judgment or
decision of a domestic or foreign court, a
judicial or quasi-judicial tribunal, or a board
or officer, it suffices to plead the judgment or
decision without showing jurisdiction to
render it.
RCFC 9

18

In addition, former subdivision (h) (“Special
Matters Required in Complaint”), comprised of
paragraphs (1) through (7), has been reorganized
as separate subdivisions (i) through (o), and a
requirement was added to new subdivision (m)
(“Tax Refund Claim”) directing that taxpayer
identification numbers be included under seal.

taxpayer(s) appearing on the
return;
(v) the date and place the claim for
refund was filed; and
(vi) the identification number of each
plaintiff, if different from the
identification number of the
taxpayer.
(n) Ownership of a Claim; Assignment. In
pleading a claim or part of a claim, ownership
of which was acquired by assignment or other
transfer, a party must include a statement
describing
when
and
upon
what
consideration the assignment or transfer was
made.
(o) Action by Another Tribunal or Body. In
relying on an action by another tribunal or
body, a party must describe the action taken
on the claim by Congress, a department or
agency of the United States, or another court.
(p) Prior Litigation. In pleading a claim that has
been previously presented to another court,
whether in whole or in part or directly or
indirectly, a party must include a statement
identifying the effect, if any, of the prior
litigation on this court’s subject matter
jurisdiction.

2012 Amendment
RCFC 9(p) has been added to require a
claimant to address the effect, if any, that a
pending prior suit brought in another court may
have on this court’s jurisdiction in light of 28
U.S.C. § 1500. See United States v. Tohono
O’Odham Nation, 563 U.S. 307, 131 S. Ct. 1723
(2011).
2018 Amendment
RCFC 9(m) has been amended to require the
filing of a redacted version of the pleading that
conforms to RCFC 5.2.
2023 Amendment
RCFC 9(m)(1) has been amended to clarify
that a redacted version of the sealed pleading
must be filed publicly at the same time the sealed
pleading is filed, and that all taxpayers, both
individuals and non-individuals, are covered by
the rule.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 2, 2012, July 2, 2018,
July 31, 2023, July 28, 2025.)

2025 Amendment
RCFC 9(m)(1) has been amended to
underscore the requirement that a party must file
both an unredacted complaint under seal and a
redacted version for public availability.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Subdivision (a) (relating to “Capacity”) has
been changed to conform to FRCP 9.
Subdivision (h)(6) (relating to special
requirements applicable to complaints in “Tax
Refund Suits”) was amended by prescribing, as
additional information to be included as part of a
tax refund complaint, the following: (i) the
taxpayer’s or filer’s identification number; and
(ii) a copy of the claim for refund.
Subdivision (h)(7) was added as a means to
clarify the nature of the property interest asserted
to have been taken in an inverse condemnation
action.

## RCFC 10
Form of Pleadings

(a) Caption; Names of Parties. Every pleading
must have a caption with the court’s name, a
title, a file number, and a RCFC 7(a)
designation. The title of the complaint must
name all the parties (see RCFC 20(a)), with
the United States designated as the party
defendant; the title of other pleadings, after
naming the first party on each side, may refer
generally to other parties.
(b) Paragraphs; Separate Statements. A party
must state its claims or defenses in numbered
paragraphs, each limited as far as practicable
to a single set of circumstances. A later
pleading may refer by number to a paragraph

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 9 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
19

RCFC 10

(b) Representations to the Court. By
presenting to the court a pleading, written
motion, or other paper—whether by signing,
filing, submitting, or later advocating it—an
attorney or unrepresented party certifies that
to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an
inquiry reasonable under the circumstances:
(1) it is not being presented for any improper
purpose, such as to harass, cause
unnecessary delay, or needlessly increase
the cost of litigation;
(2) the claims, defenses, and other legal
contentions are warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for
extending, modifying, or reversing
existing law or for establishing new law;
(3) the factual contentions have evidentiary
support or, if specifically so identified,
will likely have evidentiary support after
a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery; and
(4) the denials of factual contentions are
warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on belief or a lack of information.
(c) Sanctions.
(1) In General. If, after notice and a
reasonable opportunity to respond, the
court determines that RCFC 11(b) has
been violated, the court may impose an
appropriate sanction on any attorney, law
firm, or party that violated the rule or is
responsible for the violation. Absent
exceptional circumstances, a law firm
must be held jointly responsible for a
violation committed by its partner,
associate, or employee.
(2) Motion for Sanctions. A motion for
sanctions must be made separately from
any other motion and must describe the
specific conduct that allegedly violates
RCFC 11(b). The motion must be served
under RCFC 5, but it must not be filed or
presented to the court if the challenged
paper, claim, defense, contention, or
denial is withdrawn or appropriately
corrected within 21 days after service or
within another time the court sets. If
warranted, the court may award to the
prevailing party the reasonable expenses,

in an earlier pleading. If doing so would
promote clarity, each claim founded on a
separate transaction or occurrence—and each
defense other than a denial—must be stated
in a separate count or defense.
(c) Adoption by Reference; Exhibits. A
statement in a pleading may be adopted by
reference elsewhere in the same pleading or
in any other pleading or motion. A copy of a
written instrument that is an exhibit to a
pleading is part of the pleading for all
purposes.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 10 has been changed in minor respects
in order to achieve closer textual conformity with
FRCP 10. The former last sentence of subdivision
(a) has been moved to RCFC 5.3.
The last sentence of former subdivision (c)
(“unless otherwise indicated, but the adverse
party shall not be deemed to have admitted the
truth of the allegations in such exhibit merely
because the adverse party has failed to deny them
explicitly”) was omitted as not in conformity with
the FRCP and because it was deemed
unnecessary.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 10 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 11
Signing Pleadings, Motions, and

Other Papers; Representations to
the Court; Sanctions
(a) Signature. Every pleading, written motion,
and other paper must be signed by or for the
attorney of record in the attorney’s name—or
by a party personally if the party is
unrepresented. The paper must state the
signer’s address, e-mail address, and
telephone number. Unless a rule or statute
specifically states otherwise, a pleading need
not be verified or accompanied by an
affidavit. The court must strike an unsigned
paper unless the omission is promptly
corrected after being called to the attorney’s
or party’s attention.
RCFC 11

20

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 11 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

including attorney’s fees, incurred for the
motion.
(3) On the Court’s Initiative. On its own, the
court may order an attorney, law firm, or
party to show cause why conduct
specifically described in the order has not
violated RCFC 11(b).
(4) Nature of a Sanction. A sanction
imposed under this rule must be limited
to what suffices to deter repetition of the
conduct or comparable conduct by others
similarly situated. The sanction may
include nonmonetary directives; an order
to pay a penalty into court; or, if imposed
on motion and warranted for effective
deterrence, an order directing payment to
the movant of part or all of the reasonable
attorney’s fees and other expenses
directly resulting from the violation.
(5) Limitations on Monetary Sanctions.
The court must not impose a monetary
sanction:
(A) against a represented party for
violating RCFC 11(b)(2); or
(B) on its own, unless it issued the showcause order under RCFC 11(c)(3)
before voluntary dismissal or
settlement of the claims made by or
against the party that is, or whose
attorneys are, to be sanctioned.
(6) Requirements for an Order. An order
imposing a sanction must describe the
sanctioned conduct and explain the basis
for the sanction.
(d) Inapplicability to Discovery. This rule does
not apply to disclosures and discovery
requests, responses, objections, and motions
under RCFC 26 through 37.

## RCFC 12
Defenses and Objections: When and

How Presented; Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings;
Consolidating Motions; Waiving
Defenses; Pretrial Hearing
(a) Time to Serve a Responsive Pleading.
(1) In General.
(A) The United States must file an
answer to a complaint within 60 days
after being served with the
complaint.
(B) If
the
answer
contains
a
counterclaim, offset, or plea of fraud,
a party must file an answer to the
counterclaim, and may file a reply to
the offset or plea of fraud, within 21
days after being served with the
answer.
(C) If a reply to an answer or a
responsive pleading to a third-party
complaint or answer is ordered by
the court, a party must file the reply
or responsive pleading within 21
days after being served with the
order, unless the order specifies a
different time.
(2) United States and Its Agencies, Officers,
or Employees Sued in an Official
Capacity. [Not used.]
(3) United States Officers or Employees
Sued in an Individual Capacity. [Not
used.]
(4) Effect of a Motion. Unless the court sets
a different time, serving a motion under
this rule or RCFC 56 alters these periods
as follows:
(A) if the court denies the motion, in
whole or in part, or postpones its
disposition until trial, or if a party
withdraws the motion, the responsive
pleading must be filed by the later of:
(i) 14 days after notice of the court’s
action
or
the
motion’s
withdrawal; or
(ii) the date the response otherwise
would have been due.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The changes to RCFC 11 reflect the
corresponding revision of FRCP 11 that was
introduced in December 1993. For a detailed
explanation of the reasons for revision of FRCP
11, see 28 U.S.C.A. Rule 11 Advisory Committee
Notes (West Supp. 2001).

21

RCFC 12

(B) if the court grants a motion for a
more definite statement, the
responsive pleading must be served
within 14 days after the more definite
statement is served.
(b) How to Present Defenses. Every defense to
a claim for relief in any pleading must be
asserted in the responsive pleading if one is
required. But a party may assert the following
defenses by motion:
(1) lack of subject-matter jurisdiction;
(2) lack of personal jurisdiction;
(3) improper venue [not used];
(4) insufficient process;
(5) insufficient service of process;
(6) failure to state a claim upon which relief
can be granted; and
(7) failure to join a party under RCFC 19.
A motion asserting any of these defenses
must be made before pleading if a responsive
pleading is allowed. If a pleading sets out a
claim for relief that does not require a
responsive pleading, an opposing party may
assert at trial any defense to that claim. No
defense or objection is waived by joining it
with one or more other defenses or objections
in a responsive pleading or in a motion.
(c) Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
After the pleadings are closed—but early
enough not to delay trial—a party may move
for judgment on the pleadings.
(d) Result of Presenting Matters Outside the
Pleadings. If, on a motion under RCFC
12(b)(6) or 12(c), matters outside the
pleadings are presented to and not excluded
by the court, the motion must be treated as
one for summary judgment under RCFC 56.
All parties must be given a reasonable
opportunity to present all the material that is
pertinent to the motion.
(e) Motion for a More Definite Statement. A
party may move for a more definite statement
of a pleading to which a responsive pleading
is allowed but which is so vague or
ambiguous that the party cannot reasonably
prepare a response. The motion must be made
before filing a responsive pleading and must
point out the defects complained of and the
details desired. If the court orders a more
definite statement and the order is not obeyed
within 14 days after notice of the order or
RCFC 12 cont.

within the time the court sets, the court may
strike the pleading or issue any other
appropriate order.
(f) Motion to Strike. The court may strike from
a pleading an insufficient defense or any
redundant, immaterial, impertinent, or
scandalous matter. The court may act:
(1) on its own; or
(2) on motion made by a party either before
responding to the pleading or, if a
response is not allowed, within 21 days
after being served with the pleading.
(g) Joining Motions.
(1) Right to Join. A motion under this rule
may be joined with any other motion
allowed by this rule.
(2) Limitation on Further Motions. Except
as provided in RCFC 12(h)(2) or (3), a
party that makes a motion under this rule
must not make another motion under this
rule raising a defense or objection that
was available to the party but omitted
from its earlier motion.
(h) Waiving and Preserving Certain Defenses.
(1) When Some Are Waived. A party waives
any defense listed in RCFC 12(b)(2)-(5)
by:
(A) omitting it from a motion in the
circumstances described in RCFC
12(g)(2); or
(B) failing to either:
(i) make it by motion under this
rule; or
(ii) include it in a responsive
pleading or in an amendment
allowed by RCFC 15(a)(1) as a
matter of course.
(2) When to Raise Others. Failure to state a
claim upon which relief can be granted,
to join a person required by RCFC 19(b),
or to state a legal defense to a claim may
be raised:
(A) in any pleading allowed or ordered
under RCFC 7(a);
(B) by a motion under RCFC 12(c); or
(C) at trial.
(3) Lack of Subject-Matter Jurisdiction. If
the court determines at any time that it
lacks subject-matter jurisdiction, the
court must dismiss the action.

22

## RCFC 13
Counterclaim

(a) Compulsory Counterclaim.
(1) In General. A pleading must state as a
counterclaim any claim that—at the time
of its service—the pleader has against an
opposing party if the claim:
(A) arises out of the transaction or
occurrence that is the subject matter
of the opposing party’s claim; and
(B) does not require adding another party
over whom the court cannot acquire
jurisdiction.
(2) Exceptions. The pleader need not state
the claim if, when the action was
commenced, the claim was the subject of
another pending action.
(b) Permissive Counterclaim. A pleading may
state as a counterclaim against an opposing
party any claim that is not compulsory.
(c) Relief Sought in a Counterclaim. A
counterclaim need not diminish or defeat the
recovery sought by the opposing party. It
may request relief that exceeds in amount or
differs in kind from the relief sought by the
opposing party.
(d) Counterclaim Against the United States.
These rules do not expand the right to assert
a counterclaim—or to claim a credit—against
the United States or a United States officer or
agency.
(e) Counterclaim Maturing or Acquired After
Pleading. The court may permit a party to
file a supplemental pleading asserting a
counterclaim that matured or was acquired by
the party after serving an earlier pleading.
(f) Crossclaim Against a Coparty. [Not used.]
(g) Joining Additional Parties. [Not used.]
(h) Separate Trials; Separate Judgments. If
the court orders separate trials under RCFC
42(b), it may enter judgment on a
counterclaim under RCFC 54(b) when it has
jurisdiction to do so, even if the opposing
party’s claims have been dismissed or
otherwise resolved.

(i) Hearing Before Trial. If a party so moves,
any defense listed in RCFC 12(b)(1)-(7)—
whether made in a pleading or by motion—
and a motion under RCFC 12(c) must be
heard and decided before trial unless the
court orders a deferral until trial.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
To more closely parallel FRCP 12,
subdivisions (b) and (h) of the court’s rule have
been enlarged by adding the defense of
“insufficiency of service of process” and the
defense of “failure to join a party indispensable
under RCFC 19.” Further, as an aid to
practitioners, most of whom are familiar with
practice in the district courts, the enumeration of
defenses in subdivision (b) has been brought into
conformity with the corresponding subdivision of
the FRCP. Finally, subdivision (i) (“Suspension
of Discovery”) has been deleted. That
subdivision is not part of the comparable FRCP,
and its subject matter is more appropriately dealt
with as a case management matter.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 12 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, former paragraph (a)(1) (the text
of which is unique to our court) has been
reworded to provide that while a reply to an
answer containing a counterclaim is mandatory, a
reply to an answer containing an offset or a plea
of fraud is not (unless ordered by the court). This
rewording, although a departure from past
practice, was deemed advisable in order to avoid
the consequences of an unintended admission
caused by a party’s inadvertent failure to respond
to a defense of offset or plea of fraud that was not
clearly designated as such in the answer.
2010 Amendment
The time periods of 10 and 20 days formerly
set forth in RCFC 12 have been changed to 14 and
21 days, respectively, in accordance with the
corresponding changes to FRCP 12 that became
effective December 1, 2009.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)

23

RCFC 13

(ii) The United States must file any
motion for notice on or before
the date the answer is required to
be filed.
(iii) For good cause shown, the court
may allow a motion for notice to
be filed at a later time.
(3) Issuing a Notice; Contents.
(A) When the court, on motion or on its
own, orders a nonparty to be notified,
the clerk must issue an original and
one copy of the notice.
(B) The notice must:
(i) contain the name of the person
notified;
(ii) identify the time within which
the person may file an
appropriate pleading pursuant to
RCFC 14(c)(1)(A); and
(iii) state that the notice is
accompanied by copies of all
pleadings that have been filed in
the suit.
(4) Serving a Notice Issued on Motion of a
Party. When notice is ordered by the
court on motion of a party:
(A) the clerk must deliver the notice to
the moving party for service, at the
moving party’s expense, on the
person to be notified;
(B) the moving party must serve the
notice, together with copies of all
pleadings that have been filed in the
suit, by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested; and
(C) the return of such service must be
made directly to the clerk and
include a copy of the notice with
return receipt attached.
(5) Serving a Notice Issued on the Court’s
Own Initiative. When notice is ordered
by the court on its own initiative:
(A) each party must, at the clerk’s
request, deliver to the clerk copies of
the party’s pleadings; and
(B) the clerk, upon receipt of the
pleadings, must:
(i) issue a notice as specified in
RCFC 14(b)(3); and
(ii) forward the notice to the
Attorney General for service in

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Subdivision (d) has been changed to add the
language of FRCP 13(d) in recognition of the fact
that there is no statutory bar to third-party
defendants filing counterclaims against the
United States. See 41 U.S.C. § 114 and RCFC 14.
Other significant differences between this version
and the FRCP have been preserved as necessary
in light of the fact that the United States is the
only defendant in this court.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 13 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, the text of subdivisions (a) and
(f) has been modified to recognize that
counterclaims, while generally filed in this court
by the defendant, could, under certain
circumstances, also be filed by a summoned third
party (see RCFC 14). Hence, the terms “pleader”
and “pleading,” respectively, have been
substituted for the more restrictive terms
“defendant” and “answer.”
2010 Amendment
Former subdivision (f) has been deleted in
accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 13 that became effective December 1,
2009.

## RCFC 14
Third-Party Practice

(a) When the United States May Bring in a
Third Party. [Abrogated (eff. Aug. 30,
2013.]
(b) Notice to an Interested Party.
(1) In General. The court, on motion or on
its own, may notify any person with the
legal capacity to sue or to be sued who is
alleged to have an interest in the subject
matter of the suit.
(2) Motion for Notice.
(A) Contents. A motion for notice must:
(i) contain the name and address of
the person to be notified; and
(ii) state the person’s interest in the
pending action.
(B) Timing.
(i) A plaintiff must file any motion
for notice at the time the
complaint is filed.
RCFC 14

24

1491(b). RCFC 14 implements the authority set
forth in 41 U.S.C. § 114. For service of thirdparty complaints, see RCFC 5.

accordance
with
RCFC
14(b)(4)(B) and (C).
(6) Serving a Person Outside the United
States. When serving a notice on a person
in a foreign country, proof of service
must be made in accordance with FRCP
4(f).
(c) Third Parties Pleadings.
(1) In General.
(A) A person served with a notice issued
under this rule may file an
appropriate pleading setting forth the
person’s interest in the subject matter
of the litigation.
(B) A third party’s pleading must comply
with the requirements of RCFC 5,
5.2, 5.3, 5.5, 7, 7.1, and 7.2.
(2) Time. A third-party’s pleading must be
filed within 42 days after service of the
notice issued pursuant to this rule.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 14 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, in RCFC 14(c)(1)(B), instead of
directing that a third-party pleading “shall
comply with the requirements of these rules with
respect to the filing of original complaints and
answers,” the rule specifies that a third-party
pleading must comply with RCFC 5, 5.2, 5.3, 5.5,
7, and 7.1.
2010 Amendment
The requirement formerly set forth in RCFC
14(b)(2)(A) that a motion for notice must
“contain, as attachments, copies of all pleadings
that have been filed in the suit” has been stricken
in favor of requiring that such copies be provided
by the moving party when serving the notice
under RCFC 14(b)(4)(B).
In addition, in the interest of internal
consistency, the phrase in RCFC 14(b)(3)(B)(ii)
“may seek intervention to assert an interest in the
suit” has been changed to read “may file an
appropriate pleading pursuant to RCFC
14(c)(1)(A).”

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010, Aug. 30,
2013.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 14 has been substantially revised. The
order of the rule has been changed to distinguish
more clearly between the two types of actions it
permits with respect to entities that are not yet
parties to the suit. New subdivision (a) deals
exclusively with summons to persons whom the
United States seeks to join formally as third
parties. The procedures for such summons are
now gathered under that subdivision. The same
has been done with respect to motions for notice
to inform non-parties of the pendency of the
action and the opportunity to join as parties. In
addition, language in the old rule with respect to
service of notice by publication, as well as the
consequences of failing to appear in response to
such notice, have been stricken. The law in this
area is unsettled; hence, the possibility existed
that the manner and method of notice prescribed
by the rule might not be found constitutionally
adequate in all potential situations.
It is important to note that RCFC 14’s notice
requirements do not apply to the procedures for
notifying potential intervenors in procurement
protest cases filed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §

2013 Amendment
RCFC 14 has been amended to delete what
formerly appeared as subdivision (a) (“When the
United States May Bring in a Third Party”). This
deletion was made necessary by the repeal of
former Section 114(b) of Title 41 (“Public
Contracts”) of the United States Code that
occurred as part of the revision and enactment
into positive law of Title 41 by Public Law
Number 111-350, 124 Stat. 3677, 3855, 3857
(2011). The deleted Section 114(b), originally
enacted as part of the Contract Settlement Act of
1944, 58 Stat. 663 (1944), provided the
jurisdictional basis for this court’s authority to
summon a third party.
In addition, subparagraph (c)(1)(B) has been
amended by deleting as no longer necessary the
phrase “except that a third party need only file an
original and 2 copies of its complaint instead of
the 7 copies required by RCFC 5.5(d).”

25

RCFC 14 cont.

(c) Relation Back of Amendments.
(1) When an Amendment Relates Back. An
amendment to a pleading relates back to
the date of the original pleading when:
(A) the law that provides the applicable
statute of limitations allows relation
back;
(B) the amendment asserts a claim or
defense that arose out of the conduct,
transaction, or occurrence set out—
or attempted to be set out—in the
original pleading; or
(C) the amendment changes the party or
the naming of the party against
whom a claim is asserted, if RCFC
15(c)(1)(B) is satisfied and if the
party to be brought in by
amendment:
(i) received such notice of the
action that it will not be
prejudiced in defending on the
merits; and
(ii) knew or should have known that
the action would have been
brought against it, but for a
mistake concerning the proper
party’s identity.
(2) Notice to the United States. [Not Used.]
(d) Supplemental Pleadings. On motion and
reasonable notice, the court may, on just
terms, permit a party to serve a supplemental
pleading setting out any transaction,
occurrence, or event that happened after the
date of the pleading to be supplemented. The
court may permit supplementation even
though the original pleading is defective in
stating a claim or defense. The court may
order that the opposing party plead to the
supplemental pleading within a specified
time.

## RCFC 15
Amended and Supplemental

Pleadings
(a) Amendments Before Trial.
(1) Amending as a Matter of Course. A
party may amend its pleadings once as a
matter of course no later than:
(A) 21 days after service of the pleading;
or
(B) if the pleading is one to which a
responsive pleading is required, 21
days after service of a responsive
pleading or 21 days after service of a
motion under RCFC 12(b), (e), or (f),
whichever is earlier.
(2) Other Amendments. In all other cases, a
party may amend its pleading only with
the opposing party’s written consent or
the court’s leave. The court should freely
give leave when justice so requires.
(3) Time to Respond. Unless the court orders
otherwise, any required response to an
amended pleading must be made within
the time remaining to respond to the
original pleading or within 14 days after
service of the amended pleading,
whichever is later.
(b) Amendments During and After Trial.
(1) Based on an Objection at Trial. If, at
trial, a party objects that evidence is not
within the issues raised in the pleadings,
the court may permit the pleadings to be
amended. The court should freely permit
an amendment when doing so will aid in
presenting the merits and the objecting
party fails to satisfy the court that the
evidence would prejudice that party’s
action or defense on the merits. The court
may grant a continuance to enable the
objecting party to meet the evidence.
(2) For Issues Tried by Consent. When an
issue not raised by the pleadings is tried
by the parties’ express or implied
consent, it must be treated in all respects
as if raised in the pleadings. A party may
move—at any time, even after
judgment—to amend the pleadings to
conform them to the evidence and to raise
an unpleaded issue. But failure to amend
does not affect the result of the trial of
that issue.

RCFC 15

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010, July 15,
2011, July 29, 2024.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Significant changes were made to FRCP 15
in 1991; minor changes were made in 1993. Most
notable is the listing of criteria for relation back
of amendments in subdivision (c). RCFC 15 was
26

(B) after consulting with the parties’
attorneys and any unrepresented
parties at a scheduling conference.
(2) Time to Issue. The court must issue the
scheduling order as soon as practicable
after the filing of the Joint Preliminary
Status Report, but in any event within 14
days after any preliminary scheduling
conference.
(3) Contents of the Order.
(A) Required Contents. The scheduling
order must limit the time to join other
parties, amend the pleadings,
complete discovery, and file
motions.
(B) Permitted Contents. The scheduling
order may:
(i) modify the timing of disclosures
under RCFC 26(a) and 26(e)(1);
(ii) modify the extent of discovery;
(iii) provide
for
disclosure,
discovery, or preservation of
electronically
stored
information;
(iv) include the timing and method
for complying with RCFC
26(b)(5)(A) and any agreements
the parties reach for asserting
claims of privilege or of
protection as trial-preparation
material after information is
produced, including agreements
reached under Federal Rule of
Evidence 502;
(v) direct that before moving for an
order relating to discovery, the
movant
must
request
a
conference with the court;
(vi) set dates for pretrial conferences
and for trial;
(vii)direct that the parties file any of
the submissions set out in
Appendix A ¶¶ 14, 15, 16, or 17;
and
(viii) include
other
appropriate
matters.
(4) Modifying a Schedule. A schedule may
be modified only for good cause and with
the judge’s consent.
(c) Attendance and Matters for Consideration
at a Pretrial Conference.

conformed to the comparable FRCP, with two
exceptions: first, the language in FRCP
subdivision (c)(3), relating to the timing of an
amendment changing the name of a party, was
omitted as inapplicable; and second, language in
subdivision (c) of the FRCP, relating to faulty
service on federal officers, also was omitted.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 15 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
RCFC 15(a) has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 15(a)
that became effective December 1, 2009.
2011 Amendment
RCFC 15(a)(1)(A) has been amended to
clarify that the 21-day time period runs from the
date of service of the pleading.
2024 Amendment
RCFC 15(a)(1) has been amended in
accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 15(a)(1) that became effective December
1, 2023.

## RCFC 16
Pretrial Conferences; Scheduling;

Management
(a) Purposes of a Pretrial Conference. In any
action, the court may order the attorneys and
any unrepresented parties to appear for one or
more pretrial conferences for such purposes
as:
(1) expediting disposition of the action;
(2) establishing early and continuing control
so that the case will not be protracted
because of lack of management;
(3) discouraging wasteful pretrial activities;
(4) improving the quality of the trial through
more thorough preparation;
(5) facilitating settlement; and
(6) assessing the utility of dispositive
motions.
(b) Scheduling and Management.
(1) Scheduling Order. The court must issue
a scheduling order:
(A) after receiving the parties’ Joint
Preliminary Status Report under
Appendix A, paragraphs 4–6; or
27

RCFC 16

(1) Attendance. A represented party must
authorize at least one of its attorneys to
make stipulations and admissions about
all matters that can reasonably be
anticipated for discussion at a pretrial
conference. If appropriate, the court may
require that a party or its representative
be present or reasonably available by
other means to consider possible
settlement.
(2) Matters for Consideration. At any
pretrial conference, the court may
consider and take appropriate action on
the following matters:
(A) formulating and simplifying the
issues, and eliminating frivolous
claims or defenses;
(B) amending the pleadings if necessary
or desirable;
(C) obtaining
admissions
and
stipulations
about
facts
and
documents to avoid unnecessary
proof, and ruling in advance on the
admissibility of evidence;
(D) avoiding unnecessary proof and
cumulative evidence, and limiting
the use of testimony under Federal
Rule of Evidence 702;
(E) determining the appropriateness and
timing of summary adjudication
under RCFC 52.1 and 56;
(F) controlling
and
scheduling
discovery, including orders affecting
disclosures and discovery under
RCFC 26 and RCFC 29 through 37;
(G) identifying
witnesses
and
documents, scheduling the filing and
exchange of any pretrial briefs, and
setting dates for further conferences
and for trial;
(H) referring matters to a master;
(I) settling the case and using special
procedures to assist in resolving the
dispute;
(J) determining the form and content of
the pretrial order;
(K) disposing of pending motions;
(L) adopting special procedures for
managing potentially difficult or
protracted actions that may involve
complex issues, multiple parties,
RCFC 16 cont.

difficult legal questions, or unusual
proof problems;
(M)ordering a separate trial under RCFC
42(b) of a claim, counterclaim, thirdparty claim, or particular issue;
(N) ordering the presentation of evidence
early in the trial on a manageable
issue that might, on the evidence, be
the basis for a judgment as a matter
of law or a judgment on partial
findings under RCFC 52(c);
(O) establishing a reasonable time limit
on the time allowed to present
evidence; and
(P) facilitating in other ways the just,
speedy, and inexpensive disposition
of the action.
(d) Pretrial Orders. After any conference under
this rule, the court should issue an order
reciting the action taken. This order controls
the course of the action unless the court
modifies it.
(e) Final Pretrial Conference and Orders. The
court may hold a final pretrial conference to
formulate a trial plan, including a plan to
facilitate the admission of evidence. The
conference must be held as close to the start
of trial as is reasonable, and must be attended
by at least one attorney who will conduct the
trial for each party and by any unrepresented
party. The court may modify the order issued
after a final pretrial conference only to
prevent manifest injustice.
(f) Sanctions.
(1) In General. On motion or on its own, the
court may issue any just orders, including
those
authorized
by
RCFC
37(b)(2)(A)(ii)–(vii), if a party or its
attorney:
(A) fails to appear at a scheduling or
other pretrial conference;
(B) is substantially unprepared to
participate—or does not participate
in good faith—in the conference; or
(C) fails to obey a scheduling or other
pretrial order.
(2) Improper Disclosures. On motion or on
its own, the court may issue any just
orders, as specified above, if a party (or
its attorney) to an Alternative Dispute
Resolution (ADR) proceeding discloses
28

2016 Amendment
RCFC 16 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 16 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

the following information to a judge,
counsel, or party not a part of the ADR
proceeding:
(A) documents or materials produced
solely for the ADR proceeding; or
(B) communications made within the
scope of the ADR proceeding.
(3) Imposing Fees and Costs. Instead of or
in addition to any other sanction, the
court must order the party, its attorney, or
both to pay the reasonable expenses—
including attorney’s fees—incurred
because of any noncompliance with this
rule, unless the noncompliance was
substantially
justified
or
other
circumstances make an award of
expenses unjust.

In addition, RCFC 16(f) has been amended
by adding a new paragraph (2) to include as a
sanctionable action the disclosure of information
produced in connection with an ADR proceeding
conducted pursuant to Appendix H.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 16 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 16 that
became effective December 1, 2025.

(g) Additional Pretrial Procedures. See
Appendix A to these rules (“Case
Management Procedure”) for additional
provisions controlling pretrial procedures.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1,
2016, July 27, 2026.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 16 has been completely revised to
parallel the structure and content of its
counterpart in the FRCP. The limited number of
changes to the current FRCP reflect those
deemed necessary to accommodate procedural
requirements particular to this court. Except for
these changes, the rule shown conforms fully to
the text of FRCP 16.
2007 Amendment
Subdivision (b) of RCFC 16 has been
amended by the addition of subparagraphs 5 and
6 to reflect the corresponding changes to FRCP
16.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 16 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, reference to RCFC 26(e)(1)
(“Supplementing Disclosures and Responses”)
was added to RCFC 16(b)(3)(B)(i) to conform to
the FRCP.
29

RCFC 16 cont.

TITLE IV.

PARTIES

by a United States court to sue or be
sued in a United States court.
(c) Minor or Incompetent Person.
(1) With a Representative. The following
representatives may sue or defend on
behalf of a minor or an incompetent
person:
(A) a general guardian;
(B) a committee;
(C) a conservator; or
(D) a like fiduciary.
(2) Without a Representative. A minor or an
incompetent person who does not have a
duly appointed representative may sue by
a next friend or by a guardian ad litem.
The court must appoint a guardian ad
litem—or issue another appropriate
order—to protect a minor or incompetent
person who is unrepresented in an action.

## RCFC 17
Plaintiff and Defendant; Capacity

(a) Real Party in Interest.
(1) Designation in General. An action must
be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest. The following may sue
in their own names without joining the
person for whose benefit the action is
brought:
(A) an executor;
(B) an administrator;
(C) a guardian;
(D) a bailee;
(E) a trustee of an express trust;
(F) a party with whom or in whose name
a contract has been made for
another’s benefit; and
(G) a party authorized by statute.
(2) Action in the Name of the United States
for Another’s Use or Benefit. [Not
used.]
(3) Joinder of the Real Party in Interest.
The court may not dismiss an action for
failure to prosecute in the name of the
real party in interest until, after an
objection, a reasonable time has been
allowed for the real party in interest to
ratify, join, or be substituted into the
action. After ratification, joinder, or
substitution, the action proceeds as if it
had been originally commenced by the
real party in interest.
(b) Capacity to Sue or Be Sued. Capacity to sue
or be sued is determined as follows:
(1) for an individual who is not acting in a
representative capacity, by the law of the
individual’s domicile;
(2) for a corporation, by the law under which
it was organized; and
(3) for all other parties, by the law of the
applicable state, except that:
(A) a partnership or other unincorporated
association with no such capacity
under that state’s law may sue or be
sued in its common name to enforce
a substantive right existing under the
United States Constitution or laws;
and
(B) 28 U.S.C. §§ 754 and 959(a) govern
the capacity of a receiver appointed
RCFC 17 and 18

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 17 has been modified in minor
respects in order to achieve closer conformity
with FRCP 17. A difference between the court’s
rule and the corresponding FRCP occurs in
subdivision (b). Subdivision (b) of the FRCP,
subtitled “Capacity to Sue or Be Sued,” provides
generally that in those cases for which no rule of
decision is provided, “capacity to sue or be sued
shall be determined by the law of the state in
which the district court is held.” In recognition of
this court’s nationwide jurisdiction, the quoted
language was rewritten by substituting “by the
law of the applicable state” for “by the law of the
state in which the district court is held.”
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 17 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 18
Joinder of Claims

(a) In General. A party asserting a claim or
counterclaim may join, as independent or
alternative claims, as many claims as it has
against an opposing party. A third party may
join, to the extent permitted by law, as many
claims as it has against an opposing party.
30

(b) When Joinder Is Not Feasible. If a person
who is required to be joined if feasible cannot
be joined, the court must determine whether,
in equity and good conscience, the action
should proceed among the existing parties or
should be dismissed. The factors for the court
to consider include:
(1) the extent to which a judgment rendered
in the person’s absence might prejudice
that person or the existing parties;
(2) the extent to which any prejudice could
be lessened or avoided by:
(A) protective
provisions
in
the
judgment;
(B) shaping the relief; or
(C) other measures;
(3) whether a judgment rendered in the
person’s absence would be adequate; and
(4) whether the plaintiff would have an
adequate remedy if the action were
dismissed for nonjoinder.
(c) Pleading the Reasons for Nonjoinder.
When asserting a claim for relief, a party
must state:
(1) the name, if known, of any person who is
required to be joined if feasible but is not
joined; and
(2) the reasons for not joining that person.
(d) Exception for Class Actions. This rule is
subject to RCFC 23.

(b) Joinder of Contingent Claims. A party may
join two claims even though one of them is
contingent on the disposition of the other; but
the court may grant relief only in accordance
with the parties’ relative substantive rights.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The final sentence added to subdivision (a)
was intended to recognize both the right of a third
party to assert a claim and the limitations on that
right as set forth in 41 U.S.C. § 114 and
applicable case law.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 18 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 19
Required Joinder of Parties

(a) Persons Required to Be Joined if Feasible.
(1) Required Party. A person who is subject
to service of process and whose joinder
will not deprive the court of subjectmatter jurisdiction must be joined as a
party if:
(A) in that person’s absence, the court
cannot accord complete relief among
existing parties; or
(B) that person claims an interest relating
to the subject of the action and is so
situated that disposing of the action
in the person’s absence may:
(i) as a practical matter impair or
impede the person’s ability to
protect the interest; or
(ii) leave an existing party subject to
a substantial risk of incurring
double, multiple, or otherwise
inconsistent obligations because
of the interest.
(2) Joinder by Court Order. If a person has
not been joined as required, the court
must order that the person be made a
party. A person who refuses to join as a
plaintiff may be made either a defendant
or, in a proper case, an involuntary
plaintiff.
(3) Venue. [Not used.]

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Reference to RCFC 14 was deleted from
subdivision (a) and other minor changes have
been made in order to more closely conform to
FRCP 19. Some differences, however, were
retained—the most significant being the deletion
of the last sentence of FRCP 19(a) from this
court’s rule. The last sentence addresses
objections to venue raised by a joined party. Such
objections would not be assertable in this court.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 19 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

31

RCFC 19

## RCFC 20
Permissive Joinder of Parties

(a) Persons Who May Join or Be Joined.
(1) Plaintiffs. Persons may join in one action
as plaintiffs if:
(A) they assert any right to relief jointly,
severally, or in the alternative with
respect to or arising out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences; and
(B) any question of law or fact common
to all plaintiffs will arise in the
action.
(2) Defendants. [Not used.]
(3) Extent of Relief. A plaintiff need not be
interested in obtaining all the relief
demanded. The court may grant
judgment to one or more plaintiffs
according to their rights.
(b) Protective Measures. The court may issue
orders—including an order for separate
trials—to
protect
a
party
against
embarrassment, delay, expense, or other
prejudice that arises from including a person
against whom the party asserts no claim and
who asserts no claim against the party.

drop a party. The court may also sever any claim
against a party.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The last sentence of the former rule, “To add
plaintiffs, see RCFC 20(a)(1)–(2),” was
eliminated to more closely conform the rule to
FRCP 21.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 21 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 22
Interpleader [Not used.]

Rules Committee Note
2002 Revision
The interpleader practice permitted under
FRCP 22 is, for the most part, incompatible with
the jurisdiction exercisable by this court.
However, in those cases where the United States
is in the position of a stakeholder facing the risks
of double liability, RCFC 14 provides the means
for summoning a third party.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The authority previously contained in RCFC
20(a)(1)–(2), permitting unrestricted joinder of
additional plaintiffs to a pending multi-party
action, proved cumbersome in practice and an
impediment to sound case management. The
joinder of additional plaintiffs should proceed by
appropriate
motion
under
RCFC
15.
Accordingly, RCFC 20 was modified so as to
more closely parallel the text of the
corresponding FRCP.

## RCFC 23
Class Actions

(a) Prerequisites. One or more members of a
class may sue as representative parties on
behalf of all members only if:
(1) the class is so numerous that joinder of
all members is impracticable;
(2) there are questions of law or fact
common to the class;
(3) the claims or defenses of the
representative parties are typical of the
claims or defenses of the class; and
(4) the representative parties will fairly and
adequately protect the interests of the
class.
(b) Class Actions Maintainable. A class action
may be maintained if RCFC 23(a) is satisfied
and if:
(1) [not used];
(2) the United States has acted or refused to
act on grounds generally applicable to the
class; and

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 20 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 21
Misjoinder and Nonjoinder of

Parties
Misjoinder of parties is not a ground for
dismissing an action. On motion or on its own,
the court may at any time, on just terms, add or
RCFC 20, 21, 22 and 23

32

(3) the court finds that the questions of law
or fact common to class members
predominate over any questions affecting
only individual members, and that a class
action is superior to other available
methods for fairly and efficiently
adjudicating the controversy. The
matters pertinent to these findings
include:
(A) the class members’ interests in
individually
controlling
the
prosecution of separate actions;
(B) the extent and nature of any litigation
concerning the controversy already
begun by class members;
(C) [not used]; and
(D) the likely difficulties in managing a
class action.
(c) Certification Order; Notice to Class
Members; Judgment; Issues Classes;
Subclasses.
(1) Certification Order.
(A) Time to Issue. At an early
practicable time after a person sues
as a class representative, the court
must determine by order whether to
certify the action as a class action.
(B) Defining the Class; Appointing
Class Counsel. An order that
certifies a class action must define
the class and the class claims, issues,
or defenses, and must appoint class
counsel under RCFC 23(g).
(C) Altering or Amending the Order. An
order that grants or denies class
certification may be altered or
amended before final judgment.
(2) Notice.
(A) [Not used.]
(B) For any class certified under RCFC
23(b)—or upon ordering notice
under RCFC 23(e)(1) to a class
proposed to be certified for purposes
of settlement under RCFC 23(b)—
the court must direct to class
members the best notice that is
practicable under the circumstances,
including individual notice to all
members who can be identified
through reasonable effort. The notice
may be by one or more of the

following: United States mail,
electronic
means,
or
other
appropriate means. The notice must
clearly and concisely state in plain,
easily understood language:
(i) the nature of the action;
(ii) the definition of the class
certified;
(iii) the class claims, issues, or
defenses;
(iv) that a class member may enter an
appearance through an attorney
if the member so desires;
(v) that the court will include in the
class any member who requests
inclusion;
(vi) the time and manner for
requesting inclusion;
(vii) the binding effect of a class
judgment on members under
RCFC 23(c)(3); and
(viii) that the court may permit
withdrawal from the class of a
member who initially requested
inclusion.
(3) Judgment. Whether or not favorable to
the class, the judgment in a class action
must include and specify or describe
those to whom the RCFC 23(c)(2) notice
was directed, and whom the court finds
to be class members.
(4) Particular Issues. When appropriate, an
action may be brought or maintained as a
class action with respect to particular
issues.
(5) Subclasses. When appropriate, a class
may be divided into subclasses that are
each treated as a class under this rule.
(d) Conducting the Action.
(1) In General. In conducting an action
under this rule, the court may issue orders
that:
(A) determine the course of proceedings
or prescribe measures to prevent
undue repetition or complication in
presenting evidence or argument;
(B) require—to protect class members
and fairly conduct the action—
giving appropriate notice to some or
all class members of:
(i) any step in the action;
33

RCFC 23 cont.

(ii) the proposed extent of the
judgment; or
(iii) the members’ opportunity to
signify whether they consider the
representation fair and adequate,
to intervene and present claims
or defenses, or to otherwise
come into the action;
(C) impose
conditions
on
the
representative
parties
or
on
intervenors;
(D) require that the pleadings be
amended to eliminate allegations
about representation of absent
persons and that the action proceed
accordingly; or
(E) deal with similar procedural matters.
(2) Combining and Amending Orders. An
order under RCFC 23(d)(1) may be
altered or amended from time to time and
may be combined with an order under
RCFC 16.
(e) Settlement, Voluntary Dismissal, or
Compromise. The claims, issues, or
defenses of a certified class—or a class
proposed to be certified for purposes of
settlement—may be settled, voluntarily
dismissed, or compromised only with the
court’s approval. The following procedures
apply to a proposed settlement, voluntary
dismissal, or compromise:
(1) Notice to the Class.
(A) Information That Parties Must
Provide to the Court. The parties
must provide the court with
information sufficient to enable it to
determine whether to give notice of
the proposal to the class.
(B) Grounds for a Decision to Give
Notice. The court must direct notice
in a reasonable manner to all class
members who would be bound by the
proposal if giving notice is justified
by the parties’ showing that the court
will likely be able to:
(i) approve the proposal under
RCFC 23(e)(2); and
(ii) certify the class for purposes of
judgment on the proposal.
(2) Approval of the Proposal. If the proposal
would bind class members, the court may
RCFC 23 cont.

approve it only after a hearing and only
on finding that it is fair, reasonable, and
adequate after considering whether:
(A) the class representatives and class
counsel have adequately represented
the class;
(B) the proposal was negotiated at arm’s
length;
(C) the relief provided for the class is
adequate, taking into account:
(i) the costs, risks, and delay of trial
and appeal;
(ii) the effectiveness of any
proposed method of distributing
relief to the class, including the
method of processing classmember claims;
(iii) the terms of any proposed award
of attorney’s fees, including
timing of payment; and
(iv) any agreement required to be
identified under RCFC 23(e)(3);
and
(D) the proposal treats class members
equitably relative to each other.
(3) Identifying Agreements. The parties
seeking approval must file a statement
identifying any agreement made in
connection with the proposal.
(4) Opportunity to Withdraw. If the class
action was previously certified under
RCFC 23(b), the court may refuse to
approve a settlement unless it affords an
opportunity to request withdrawal to
individual class members who had earlier
elected to join the class.
(5) Class-Member Objections.
(A) In General. Any class member may
object to the proposal if it requires
court approval under this subdivision
(e). The objection must state whether
it applies only to the objector, to a
specific subset of the class, or to the
entire class, and also state with
specificity the grounds for the
objection.
(B) Court Approval Required for
Payment in Connection with an
Objection. Unless approved by the
court after a hearing, no payment or

34

appoint the applicant best able to
represent the interests of the class.
(3) Interim Counsel. The court may
designate interim counsel to act on behalf
of a putative class before determining
whether to certify the action as a class
action.
(4) Duty of Class Counsel. Class counsel
must fairly and adequately represent the
interests of the class.
(h) Attorney’s Fees and Nontaxable Costs. In
a certified class action, the court may award
reasonable attorney’s fees and nontaxable
costs that are authorized by law or by the
parties’ agreement. The following procedures
apply:
(1) A claim for an award must be made by
motion under RCFC 54(d)(2), subject to
the provisions of this subdivision (h), at a
time the court sets. Notice of the motion
must be served on all parties and, for
motions by class counsel, directed to
class members in a reasonable manner.
(2) A class member, or party from whom
payment is sought, may object to the
motion.
(3) The court may hold a hearing and must
find the facts and state its legal
conclusions under RCFC 52(a).
(4) [Not used.]

other consideration may be provided
in connection with:
(i) forgoing or withdrawing an
objection, or
(ii) forgoing,
dismissing,
or
abandoning an appeal from a
judgment
approving
the
proposal.
(C) Procedure for Approval After an
Appeal. [Not used.]
(f) Appeals. [Not used.]
(g) Class Counsel.
(1) Appointing Class Counsel. Unless a
statute provides otherwise, a court that
certifies a class must appoint class
counsel. In appointing class counsel, the
court:
(A) must consider:
(i) the work counsel has done in
identifying or investigating
potential claims in the action;
(ii) counsel’s experience in handling
class actions, other complex
litigation, and the types of claims
asserted in the action;
(iii) counsel’s knowledge of the
applicable law; and
(iv) the resources that counsel will
commit to representing the class;
(B) may consider any other matter
pertinent to counsel’s ability to fairly
and adequately represent the
interests of the class;
(C) may order potential class counsel to
provide information on any subject
pertinent to the appointment and to
propose terms for attorney’s fees and
nontaxable costs;
(D) may include in the appointing order
provisions about the award of
attorney’s fees or nontaxable costs
under RCFC 23(h); and
(E) may make further orders in
connection with the appointment.
(2) Standard for Appointing Class Counsel.
When one applicant seeks appointment
as class counsel, the court may appoint
that applicant only if the applicant is
adequate under RCFC 23(g)(1) and (4).
If more than one adequate applicant
seeks appointment, the court must

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended July 1, 2004, Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11,
2010, July 2, 2018, July 1, 2019.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 23 has been completely rewritten.
Although the court’s rule is modeled largely on
the comparable FRCP, there are significant
differences between the two rules. In the main,
the court’s rule adopts the criteria for certifying
and maintaining a class action as set forth in
Quinault Allottee Ass’n v. United States, 197 Ct.
Cl. 134, 453 F.2d 1272 (1972).
Because the relief available in this court is
generally confined to individual money claims
against the United States, the situations justifying
the use of a class action are correspondingly
narrower than those addressed in FRCP 23. Thus,
the court’s rule does not accommodate, inter alia,
35

RCFC 23 cont.

23(h)(1)–(3) with respect to claims for an award
of attorney’s fees.

the factual situations redressable through
declaratory and injunctive relief contemplated
under FRCP 23(b)(1) and (b)(2).
Additionally, unlike the FRCP, the court’s
rule contemplates only opt-in class certifications,
not opt-out classes. The latter were viewed as
inappropriate here because of the need for
specificity in money judgments against the
United States, and the fact that the court’s
injunctive powers—the typical focus of an optout class—are more limited than those of a
district court.
Finally, the court’s rule does not contain a
provision comparable to FRCP 23(f). That
subdivision, which provides that a “court of
appeals may in its discretion permit an appeal
from an order . . . granting or denying class
certification,” has its origin in 28 U.S.C. §
1292(e), which authorizes the Supreme Court to
promulgate rules that provide for an appeal of an
interlocutory decision other than those set out in
Section 1292. Because no comparable statutory
authority exists for this court’s promulgation of a
similar rule, subdivision (f) has been omitted. It
should be noted, however, that the Court of
Federal Claims may certify questions to the Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit pursuant to 28
U.S.C. §§ 1292(b), 1295.

2010 Amendment
RCFC 23(g)(1)(B) has been amended by
substituting the word “adequately” for the word
“accurately” to conform to the FRCP.
2018 Amendment
RCFC 23(c)(2)(B) has been amended by
adding item (viii) to allow withdrawal from the
class of a member who initially requested
inclusion.
2019 Amendment
RCFC 23 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 23 that
became effective December 1, 2018.

## RCFC 23.1
Derivative Actions

(a) Prerequisites. This rule applies when one or
more shareholders or members of a
corporation or an unincorporated association
bring a derivative action to enforce a right
that the corporation or association may
properly assert but has failed to enforce. The
derivative action may not be maintained if it
appears that the plaintiff does not fairly and
adequately represent the interests of
shareholders or members who are similarly
situated in enforcing the right of the
corporation or association.
(b) Pleading Requirements. The complaint
must be verified and must:
(1) allege that the plaintiff was a shareholder
or member at the time of the transaction
complained of, or that the plaintiff’s
share or membership later devolved on it
by operation of law;
(2) allege that the action is not a collusive
one to confer jurisdiction that the court
would otherwise lack; and
(3) state with particularity:
(A) any effort by the plaintiff to obtain
the desired action from the directors
or comparable authority and, if
necessary, from the shareholders or
members; and
(B) the reasons for not obtaining the
action or not making the effort.

2004 Amendment
In addition to the rule changes introduced in
2002, the text of the current rule also incorporates
the revisions to FRCP 23 effective December 1,
2003. These revisions, which appear as
subdivisions (c), (e), (g), and (h) of the rule, adopt
the text of the FRCP except where modification
in wording was necessary to accommodate the
“opt-in” character of this court’s class action
practice.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 23 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, subdivision (h) (“Attorney’s Fees
and Nontaxable Costs”) has been expanded to (i)
recognize that an award of attorney’s fees may be
authorized either by law (as was previously
recognized in the rule) or “by the parties’
agreement”; and (ii) include the procedural
protections accorded class members under FRCP

RCFC 23.1

36

(b) Permissive Intervention.
(1) In General. On timely motion, the court
may permit anyone to intervene who:
(A) is given a conditional right to
intervene by a federal statute; or
(B) has a claim or defense that shares
with the main action a common
question of law or fact.
(2) By a Government Officer or Agency.
[Not used.]
(3) Delay or Prejudice. In exercising its
discretion, the court must consider
whether the intervention will unduly
delay or prejudice the adjudication of the
original parties’ rights.
(c) Notice and Pleading Required. A motion to
intervene must be served on the parties as
provided in RCFC 5. The motion must state
the grounds for the intervention and be
accompanied by a pleading that sets out the
claim or defense for which intervention is
sought.

(c) Settlement, Dismissal, and Compromise. A
derivative action may be settled, voluntarily
dismissed, or compromised only with the
court’s approval. Notice of a proposed
settlement,
voluntary
dismissal,
or
compromise must be given to shareholders or
members in the manner that the court orders.
(Added May 1, 2002; as amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Adoption
This is a new rule. This version of RCFC 23.1
is in conformity with the corresponding FRCP.
The Federal Circuit has ruled that under certain
circumstances, this court has jurisdiction to hear
shareholder derivative suits. First Hartford Corp.
Pension Plan & Trust v. United States, 194 F.3d
1279 (Fed. Cir. 1999). Cf. Branch v. United
States, 69 F.3d 1571 (Fed. Cir. 1995); and
California Housing Sec., Inc. v. United States,
959 F.2d 955 (Fed. Cir. 1992).
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 23.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes have been made to
subdivision (c) of this rule in order to more
closely conform to FRCP 24.

## RCFC 23.2
A c t i o n s R e l a t i n g t o

Unincorporated Associations [Not
used.]

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 24 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, as pointed out in the 2007
Committee Note in the FRCP, the final sentence
in subdivision (c)—specifying that the procedure
called for under the rule “shall be followed when
a statute of the United States gives a right to
intervene”—was deleted as unnecessary.

Rules Committee Note
2002 Revision
This rule is procedurally unnecessary in light
of the opt-in class-action procedures of RCFC 23.

## RCFC 24
Intervention

(a) Intervention of Right. On timely motion,
the court must permit anyone to intervene
who:
(1) is given an unconditional right to
intervene by a federal statute; or
(2) claims an interest relating to the property
or transaction that is the subject of the
action, and is so situated that disposing of
the action may as a practical matter
impair or impede the movant’s ability to
protect its interest, unless existing parties
adequately represent that interest.

## RCFC 25
Substitution of Parties

(a) Death.
(1) Substitution if the Claim is Not
Extinguished. If a party dies and the
claim is not extinguished, the court may
order substitution of the proper party. A
motion for substitution may be made by
any party or by the decedent’s successor
or representative. If the motion is not
37

RCFC 23.2, 24 and 25

successor in an action naming a public officer
who dies or is separated from service while the
action is pending.

made within 90 days after service of a
statement noting the death, the action by
the decedent must be dismissed.
(2) Continuation Among the Remaining
Parties. After a party’s death, if the right
sought to be enforced survives only to or
against the remaining parties, the action
does not abate, but proceeds in favor of
or against the remaining parties. The
death should be noted on the record.
(3) Service. A motion to substitute, together
with a notice of hearing, must be served
on the parties as provided in RCFC 5. A
statement noting death must be served on
the parties and a successor or
representative of the deceased party in
the same manner.
(b) Incompetency. If a party becomes
incompetent, the court may, on motion,
permit the action to be continued by or
against the party’s representative. The
motion must be served as provided in RCFC
25(a)(3).
(c) Transfer of Interest. If an interest is
transferred, the action may be continued by
or against the original party unless the court,
on motion, orders the transferee to be
substituted in the action or joined with the
original party. The motion must be served as
provided in RCFC 25(a)(3).
(d) Public Officers; Death or Separation from
Office. An action does not abate when a
public officer who is a party in an official
capacity dies, resigns, or otherwise ceases to
hold office while the action is pending. The
officer’s
successor
is
automatically
substituted as a party. Later proceedings
should be in the substituted party’s name, but
any misnomer not affecting the parties’
substantial rights must be disregarded. The
court may order substitution at any time, but
the absence of such an order does not affect
the substitution.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 25 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, subdivision (d) (“Public Officers;
Death or Separation from Office”), which is
identical in text to FRCP 25(d) but was
previously “not used,” was added in recognition
of the provision’s potential applicability to claims
for compensation filed in this court under the
National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act. In such
suits, a public officer (the Secretary of Health and
Human Services) is always the named
respondent.
2020 Amendment
RCFC 25(a)(3) has been amended to
eliminate the inadvertent implication that a
statement noting death need not be served on
nonparties such as successors or representatives
of the deceased party.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 3, 2020.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 25 omits the text of subdivision (d) of
FRCP 25 which addresses the substitution of a
RCFC 25

38

TITLE V.

DISCLOSURES
DISCOVERY

(i) an action for review on an
administrative record, including
procurement protest and military
pay cases;
(ii) [not used];
(iii) [not used];
(iv) an action brought without an
attorney by a person in the
custody of the United States, a
state, or a state subdivision;
(v) [not used];
(vi) [not used];
(vii) [not used];
(viii) [not used];
(ix) an action to enforce an
arbitration award; and
(x) an action under the National
Childhood Vaccine Injury Act.
(C) Time for Initial Disclosures—In
General. A party must make the
initial disclosures at or within 14
days after the Early Meeting of
Counsel (see Appendix A ¶ 3) unless
a different time is set by stipulation
or court order, or unless a party
objects during the conference that
initial disclosures are not appropriate
in this action and states the objection
in the Joint Preliminary Status
Report. In ruling on the objection,
the court must determine what
disclosures, if any, are to be made
and must set the time for disclosure.
(D) Time for Initial Disclosures—For
Parties Served or Joined Later. A
party that is first served or otherwise
joined after the Early Meeting of
Counsel (see Appendix A ¶ 3) must
make the initial disclosures within 30
days after being served or joined,
unless a different time is set by
stipulation or court order.
(E) Basis for Initial Disclosure;
Unacceptable Excuses. A party must
make its initial disclosures based on
the information then reasonably
available to it. A party is not excused
from making its disclosures because
it has not fully investigated the case
or because it challenges the
sufficiency of another party’s

AND

## RCFC 26
Duty to Disclose; General

Provisions Governing Discovery
(a) Required Disclosures.
(1) Initial Disclosure.
(A) In General. Except as exempted by
RCFC 26(a)(1)(B) or as otherwise
stipulated or ordered by the court, a
party must, without awaiting a
discovery request, provide to the
other parties:
(i) the name and, if known, the
address and telephone number of
each individual likely to have
discoverable
information—
along with the subjects of that
information—that the disclosing
party may use to support its
claims or defenses, unless the
use would be solely for
impeachment;
(ii) a copy—or a description by
category and location—of all
documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things
that the disclosing party has in its
possession, custody, or control
and may use to support its claims
or defenses, unless the use would
be solely for impeachment;
(iii) a computation of each category
of damages claimed by the
disclosing party—who must also
make available for inspection
and copying as under RCFC 34
the
documents
or
other
evidentiary material, unless
privileged or protected from
disclosure, on which each
computation is based, including
materials bearing on the nature
and extent of injuries suffered;
and
(iv) [not used].
(B) Proceedings Exempt from Initial
Disclosure.
The
following
proceedings are exempt from initial
disclosure:

39

RCFC 26

(ii) a summary of the facts and
opinions to which the witness is
expected to testify.
(D) Time to Disclose Expert Testimony.
A party must make these disclosures
at the times and in the sequence that
the court orders. Absent a stipulation
or a court order, the disclosures must
be made:
(i) at least 90 days before the date
set for trial or for the case to be
ready for trial; or
(ii) if the evidence is intended solely
to contradict or rebut evidence
on the same subject matter
identified by another party under
RCFC 26(a)(2)(B) or (C), within
30 days after the other party’s
disclosure.
(E) Supplementing the Disclosure. The
parties must supplement these
disclosures when required under
RCFC 26(e).
(3) Pretrial Disclosures. [Not used; see
Appendix A ¶¶ 13, 15, and 16.]
(4) Form of Disclosures. Unless the court
orders otherwise, all disclosures under
RCFC 26(a) must be in writing, signed,
and served.
(b) Discovery Scope and Limits.
(1) Scope in General. Unless otherwise
limited by court order, the scope of
discovery is as follows: parties may
obtain
discovery
regarding
any
nonprivileged matter that is relevant to
any party’s claim or defense and
proportional to the needs of the case,
considering the importance of the issues
at stake in the action, the amount in
controversy, the parties’ relative access
to relevant information, the parties’
resources, the importance of the
discovery in resolving the issues, and
whether the burden or expense of the
proposed discovery outweighs its likely
benefit. Information within this scope of
discovery need not be admissible in
evidence to be discoverable.
(2) Limitations on Frequency and Extent.
(A) When Permitted. By order, the court
may alter the limits in these rules on

disclosures or because another party
has not made its disclosures.
(2) Disclosure of Expert Testimony.
(A) In General. In addition to the
disclosures required by RCFC
26(a)(1), a party must disclose to the
other parties the identity of any
witness it may use at trial to present
evidence under Federal Rule of
Evidence 702, 703, or 705.
(B) Witnesses Who Must Provide a
Written Report. Unless otherwise
stipulated or ordered by the court,
this disclosure must be accompanied
by a written report—prepared and
signed by the witness—if the witness
is one retained or specially employed
to provide expert testimony in the
case or one whose duties as the
party’s employee regularly involve
giving expert testimony. The report
must contain:
(i) a complete statement of all
opinions the witness will express
and the basis and reasons for
them;
(ii) the facts or data considered by
the witness in forming them;
(iii) any exhibits that will be used to
summarize or support them;
(iv) the witness’s qualifications,
including a list of all
publications authored in the
previous 10 years;
(v) a list of all other cases in which,
during the previous 4 years, the
witness testified as an expert at
trial or by deposition; and
(vi) a statement of the compensation
to be paid for the study and
testimony in the case.
(C) Witnesses Who Do Not Provide a
Written Report. Unless otherwise
stipulated or ordered by the court, if
the witness is not required to provide
a written report, this disclosure must
state:
(i) the subject matter on which the
witness is expected to present
evidence under Federal Rule of
Evidence 702, 703, or 705; and
RCFC 26 cont.

40

But, subject to RCFC 26(b)(4), those
materials may be discovered if:
(i) they are otherwise discoverable
under RCFC 26(b)(1); and
(ii) the party shows that it has
substantial need for the materials
to prepare its case and cannot,
without undue hardship, obtain
their substantial equivalent by
other means.
(B) Protection Against Disclosure. If the
court orders discovery of those
materials, it must protect against
disclosure of the mental impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal
theories of a party’s attorney or other
representative
concerning
the
litigation.
(C) Previous Statement. Any party or
other person may, on request and
without the required showing, obtain
the person’s own previous statement
about the action or its subject matter.
If the request is refused, the person
may move for a court order, and
RCFC 37(a)(5) applies to the award
of expenses. A previous statement is
either:
(i) a written statement that the
person has signed or otherwise
adopted or approved; or
(ii) a
contemporaneous
stenographic,
mechanical,
electrical, or other recording—or
a transcription of it—that recites
substantially
verbatim
the
person’s oral statement.
(4) Trial Preparation: Experts.
(A) Deposition of an Expert Who May
Testify. A party may depose any
person who has been identified as an
expert whose opinions may be
presented at trial. If RCFC
26(a)(2)(B) requires a report from
the expert, the deposition may be
conducted only after the report is
provided.
(B) Trial-Preparation Protection for
Draft Reports or Disclosures. RCFC
26(b)(3)(A) and (B) protect drafts of
any report or disclosure required

the number of depositions and
interrogatories or on the length of
depositions under RCFC 30. By
order, the court may also limit the
number of requests under RCFC 36.
(B) Specific
Limitations
on
Electronically Stored Information.
A party need not provide discovery
of electronically stored information
from sources that the party identifies
as not reasonably accessible because
of undue burden or cost. On motion
to compel discovery or for a
protective order, the party from
whom discovery is sought must show
that the information is not reasonably
accessible because of undue burden
or cost. If that showing is made, the
court may nonetheless order
discovery from such sources if the
requesting party shows good cause,
considering the limitations of RCFC
26(b)(2)(C). The court may specify
conditions for the discovery.
(C) When Required. On motion or on its
own, the court must limit the
frequency or extent of discovery
otherwise allowed by these rules if it
determines that:
(i) the
discovery
sought
is
unreasonably cumulative or
duplicative, or can be obtained
from some other source that is
more
convenient,
less
burdensome, or less expensive;
(ii) the party seeking discovery has
had ample opportunity to obtain
the information by discovery in
the action; or
(iii) the proposed discovery is outside
the scope permitted by RCFC
26(b)(1).
(3) Trial Preparation: Materials.
(A) Documents and Tangible Things.
Ordinarily, a party may not discover
documents and tangible things that
are prepared in anticipation of
litigation or for trial by or for another
party or its representative (including
the other party’s attorney, consultant,
surety, indemnitor insurer, or agent).
41

RCFC 26 cont.

the fees and expenses it
reasonably incurred in obtaining
the expert’s facts and opinions.
(5) Claiming Privilege or Protecting TrialPreparation Materials.
(A) Information Withheld. When a party
withholds information otherwise
discoverable by claiming that the
information is privileged or subject
to protection as trial-preparation
material, the party must:
(i) expressly make the claim; and
(ii) describe the nature of the
documents, communications, or
tangible things not produced or
disclosed—and do so in a
manner that, without revealing
information itself privileged or
protected, will enable other
parties to assess the claim.
(B) Information
Produced.
If
information produced in discovery is
subject to a claim of privilege or of
protection
as
trial-preparation
material, the party making the claim
may notify any party that received
the information of the claim and the
basis for it. After being notified, a
party must promptly return,
sequester, or destroy the specified
information and any copies it has;
must not use or disclose the
information until the claim is
resolved; must take reasonable steps
to retrieve the information if the
party disclosed it before being
notified; and may promptly present
the information to the court under
seal for a determination of the claim.
The producing party must preserve
the information until the claim is
resolved.
(c) Protective Orders.
(1) In General. A party or any person from
whom discovery is sought may move for
a protective order. The motion must
include a certification that the movant
has in good faith conferred or attempted
to confer with other affected parties in an
effort to resolve the dispute without court
action. The court may, for good cause,

under RCFC 26(a)(2), regardless of
the form in which the draft is
recorded.
(C) Trial-Preparation Protection for
Communications Between a Party’s
Attorney and Expert Witnesses.
RCFC 26(b)(3)(A) and (B) protect
communications between the party’s
attorney and any witness required to
provide a report under RCFC
26(a)(2)(B), regardless of the form of
the communications, except to the
extent that the communications:
(i) relate to compensation for the
expert’s study or testimony;
(ii) identify facts or data that the
party’s attorney provided and
that the expert considered in
forming the opinions to be
expressed; or
(iii) identify assumptions that the
party’s attorney provided and
that the expert relied on in
forming the opinions to be
expressed.
(D) Expert Employed Only for Trial
Preparation. Ordinarily, a party may
not, by interrogatories or deposition,
discover facts known or opinions
held by an expert who has been
retained or specially employed by
another party in anticipation of
litigation or to prepare for trial and
who is not expected to be called as a
witness at trial. But a party may do so
only:
(i) as provided in RCFC 35(b); or
(ii) on
showing
exceptional
circumstances under which it is
impracticable for the party to
obtain facts or opinions on the
same subject by other means.
(E) Payment. Unless manifest injustice
would result, the court must require
that the party seeking discovery:
(i) pay the expert a reasonable fee
for time spent in responding to
discovery
under
RCFC
26(b)(4)(A) or (D); and
(ii) for discovery under (D), also pay
the other party a fair portion of
RCFC 26 cont.

42

(i) to that party by any other party;
and
(ii) by that party to any plaintiff or to
any other party that has been
served.
(B) When Considered Served. The
request is considered to have been
served at the Early Meeting of
Counsel (see Appendix A ¶ 3).
(3) Sequence. Unless the parties stipulate or
the court orders otherwise for the parties’
and witnesses’ convenience and in the
interests of justice:
(A) methods of discovery may be used in
any sequence; and
(B) discovery by one party does not
require any other party to delay its
discovery.
(e) Supplementing
Disclosures
and
Responses.
(1) In General. A party who has made a
disclosure under RCFC 26(a)—or who
has responded to an interrogatory,
request for production, or request for
admission—must supplement or correct
its disclosure or response:
(A) in a timely manner if the party learns
that in some material respect the
disclosure or response is incomplete
or incorrect, and if the additional or
corrective information has not
otherwise been made known to the
other parties during the discovery
process or in writing; or
(B) as ordered by the court.
(2) Expert Witness. For an expert whose
report must be disclosed under RCFC
26(a)(2)(B), the party’s duty to
supplement extends both to information
included in the report and to information
given during the expert’s deposition. Any
additions or changes to this information
must be disclosed by the time the party’s
pretrial disclosures under RCFC 26(a)(3)
are due.
(f) Conference of the Parties; Planning for
Discovery. [Not used; see Appendix A ¶ 3.]
(g) Signing Disclosures
and
Discovery
Requests, Responses, and Objections.
(1) Signature
Required;
Effect
of
Signature. Every disclosure under RCFC

issue an order to protect a party or person
annoyance,
embarrassment,
from
oppression, or undue burden or expense,
including one or more of the following:
(A) forbidding the disclosure or
discovery;
(B) specifying terms, including time and
place or the allocation of expenses,
for the disclosure or discovery;
(C) prescribing a discovery method other
than the one selected by the party
seeking discovery;
(D) forbidding inquiry into certain
matters, or limiting the scope of
disclosure or discovery to certain
matters;
(E) designating the persons who may be
present while the discovery is
conducted;
(F) requiring that a deposition be sealed
and opened only on court order;
(G) requiring that a trade secret or other
confidential research, development,
or commercial information not be
revealed or be revealed only in a
specified way; and
(H) requiring
that
the
parties
simultaneously
file
specified
documents or information in sealed
envelopes, to be opened as the court
directs.
(2) Ordering Discovery. If a motion for a
protective order is wholly or partly
denied, the court may, on just terms,
order that any party or person provide or
permit discovery.
(3) Awarding Expenses. RCFC 37(a)(5)
applies to the award of expenses.
(d) Timing and Sequence of Discovery.
(1) Timing. A party may not seek discovery
from any source before the parties have
conferred as required by Appendix A ¶ 3,
except in a proceeding exempted from
initial
disclosure
under
RCFC
26(a)(1)(B), or when authorized by these
rules, by stipulation, or by court order.
(2) Early Rule 34 Requests.
(A)Time to Deliver. More than 21 days
after the complaint is served on a
party, a request under RCFC 34 may
be delivered:
43

RCFC 26 cont.

including attorney’s fees, caused by the
violation.

26(a)(1) or Appendix A ¶¶ 13, 15, and
16, and every discovery request,
response, or objection must be signed by
the attorney of record in the attorney’s
own name—or by the party personally, if
unrepresented—and must state the
signer’s address, e-mail address, and
telephone number. By signing, an
attorney or party certifies that to the best
of the person’s knowledge, information,
and belief formed after a reasonable
inquiry:
(A) with respect to a disclosure, it is
complete and correct as of the time it
is made; and
(B) with respect to a discovery request,
response, or objection, it is:
(i) consistent with these rules and
warranted by existing law or by
a nonfrivolous argument for
extending,
modifying,
or
reversing existing law, or for
establishing new law;
(ii) not interposed for any improper
purpose, such as to harass, cause
unnecessary delay, or needlessly
increase the cost of litigation;
and
(iii) neither unreasonable nor unduly
burdensome
or
expensive,
considering the needs of the
case, prior discovery in the case,
the amount in controversy, and
the importance of the issues at
stake in the action.
(2) Failure to Sign. Other parties have no
duty to act on an unsigned disclosure,
request, response, or objection until it is
signed, and the court must strike it unless
a signature is promptly supplied after the
omission is called to the attorney’s or
party’s attention.
(3) Sanction for Improper Certification. If a
certification violates this rule without
substantial justification, the court, on
motion or on its own, must impose an
appropriate sanction on the signer, the
party on whose behalf the signer was
acting, or both. The sanction may include
an order to pay the reasonable expenses,

RCFC 26 cont.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, July 15,
2011, July 2, 2012, Aug. 1, 2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 26 has been revised to parallel the
structure and content of its counterpart in the
FRCP. The limited number of changes to the
current FRCP, as amended in 2000, reflect those
deemed necessary to accommodate the nature and
jurisdiction of this court. Except for these
changes, the rule shown conforms fully to the text
of FRCP 26. Because the Appendix A Early
Meeting of Counsel substantially accomplishes
the same purpose as the FRCP 26(f) Conference
of Parties, the timing of initial disclosures was
keyed to the former. Consequently, in lieu of the
language of FRCP 26(f), cross reference is made
to Appendix A ¶ 3.
2007 Amendment
Rule 26 has been amended to reflect the
changes to subdivisions (a) and (b) of FRCP 26
that became effective December 1, 2006. The
changes to subdivision (f) of FRCP 26 that
became effective December 1, 2006, were also
adopted by the court but appear as changes to
Appendix A ¶ 3.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 26 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, the references in former
subparagraph (a)(1)(E) to the initial disclosure
requirements after the filing of the Joint
Preliminary Status Report have been changed in
now-restyled subparagraphs (a)(1)(C) and (D) to
“after the Early Meeting of Counsel” to reflect the
corresponding event (the Rule 26(f) conference)
identified in the federal rule.
2011 Amendment
RCFC 26 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 26 that
became effective December 1, 2010.

44

2012 Amendment
RCFC 26(a)(2)(D) has been amended to
conform to its FRCP counterpart. In particular,
the time within which a party must disclose
expert testimony has been tied to the date of trial
rather than to the scheduled close of discovery.

the depositions will be taken orally or by
written interrogatories. The depositions
may then be taken under these rules, and
the court may issue orders like those
authorized by RCFC 34 and 35.
(4) Using the Deposition. A deposition to
perpetuate testimony may be used under
RCFC 32(a) in any later-filed action in
this court involving the same subject
matter if the deposition was taken under
these rules.
(b) Pending Appeal.
(1) In General. If a judgment has been
rendered and an appeal has been taken or
may still be taken, the court may permit
a party to depose witnesses to perpetuate
their testimony for use in the event of
further proceedings in the court.
(2) Motion. The party who wants to
perpetuate testimony may move for leave
to take the depositions, on the same
notice and service as if the action were
pending in this court. The motion must
show:
(A) the name, address, and expected
substance of the testimony of each
deponent; and
(B) the reasons for perpetuating the
testimony.
(3) Court Order. If the court finds that
perpetuating the testimony may prevent a
failure or delay of justice, the court may
permit the depositions to be taken and
may issue orders like those authorized by
RCFC 34 and 35. The depositions may be
taken and used as any other deposition
taken in an action pending in this court.
(c) Perpetuation by an Action. [Not used.]

2016 Amendment
RCFC 26 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 26 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

## RCFC 27
Depositions to Perpetuate Testimony

(a) Before an Action Is Filed.
(1) Petition. A person who wants to
perpetuate testimony about any matter
cognizable in the court may file a verified
petition. The petition must ask for an
order authorizing the petitioner to depose
the named persons in order to perpetuate
their testimony. The petition must be
titled in the petitioner’s name and must
show:
(A) that the petitioner expects to be a
party to an action cognizable in the
court but cannot presently bring it or
cause it to be brought;
(B) the subject matter of the expected
action and the petitioner’s interest;
(C) the facts that the petitioner wants to
establish by the proposed testimony
and the reasons to perpetuate it;
(D) [not used]; and
(E) the name, address, and expected
substance of the testimony of each
deponent.
(2) Notice and Service. The petitioner must
serve the United States with a copy of the
petition in the same manner as the
complaint. See RCFC 4. The petitioner
may thereafter request a hearing by
motion served on counsel for the United
States (see RCFC 5), or on its own, the
court may order a hearing on the petition.
(3) Order and Examination. If satisfied that
perpetuating the testimony may prevent a
failure or delay of justice, the court must
issue an order that designates or
describes the persons whose depositions
may be taken, specifies the subject matter
of the examinations, and states whether

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 27 closely parallels FRCP 27, the only
differences being those necessary for
compatibility with the jurisdiction and other rules
of the court.

45

RCFC 27

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 27 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

notice or a commission must designate
by name or descriptive title the person
before whom the deposition is to be
taken.
(4) Letter of Request—Admitting Evidence.
Evidence obtained in response to a letter
of request need not be excluded merely
because it is not a verbatim transcript,
because the testimony was not taken
under oath, or because of any similar
departure from the requirements for
depositions taken within the United
States.
(c) Disqualification. A deposition must not be
taken before a person who is any party’s
relative, employee, or attorney; who is
related to or employed by any party’s
attorney; or who is financially interested in
the action.

## RCFC 28
Persons Before Whom Depositions

May Be Taken
(a) Within the United States.
(1) In General. Within the United States or
a territory or insular possession subject to
United States jurisdiction, a deposition
must be taken before:
(A) an officer authorized to administer
oaths either by federal law or by the
law in the place of examination; or
(B) a person appointed by the court to
administer oaths and take testimony.
(2) Definition of “Officer.” The term
“officer” in RCFC 30, 31, and 32
includes a person appointed by the court
under this rule or designated by the
parties under RCFC 29(a).
(b) In a Foreign Country.
(1) In General. A deposition may be taken
in a foreign country:
(A) under an applicable treaty
or
convention;
(B) under a letter of request, whether or
not captioned a “letter rogatory”;
(C) on notice, before a person authorized
to administer oaths either by federal
law or by the law in the place of
examination; or
(D) before a person commissioned by the
court to administer any necessary
oath and take testimony.
(2) Issuing a Letter of Request or a
Commission. A letter of request, a
commission, or both may be issued:
(A) on appropriate terms after an
application and notice of it; and
(B) without a showing that taking the
deposition in another manner is
impracticable or inconvenient.
(3) Form of a Request, Notice, or
Commission. When a letter of request or
any other device is used according to a
treaty or convention, it must be captioned
in the form prescribed by that treaty or
convention. A letter of request may be
addressed “To the Appropriate Authority
in [name of country].” A deposition
RCFC 28 and 29

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 28 parallels in form and content FRCP
28. The single difference between the two rules
occurs in subdivision (a): the court’s rule
eliminates the reference to other courts by
omitting the phrasing “in which the action is
pending.”
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 28 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 29
Stipulations About Discovery

Procedure
Unless the court orders otherwise, the parties may
stipulate that:
(a) a deposition may be taken before any person,
at any time or place, on any notice, and in the
manner specified—in which event it may be
used in the same way as any other deposition;
and
(b) other procedures governing or limiting
discovery be modified—but a stipulation
extending the time for any form of discovery
must have court approval if it would interfere
with the time set for completing discovery,
for hearing a motion, or for trial.
46

address. If the name is unknown, the
notice must provide a general description
sufficient to identify the person or the
particular class or group to which the
person belongs.
(2) Producing Documents. If a subpoena
duces tecum is to be served on the
deponent, the materials designated for
production, as set out in the subpoena
must be listed in the notice or in an
attachment. The notice to a party
deponent may be accompanied by a
request under RCFC 34 to produce
documents and tangible things at the
deposition.
(3) Method of Recording.
(A) Method Stated in the Notice. The
party who notices the deposition
must state in the notice the method
for recording the testimony. Unless
the court orders otherwise, testimony
may be recorded by audio,
audiovisual, or stenographic means.
The noticing party bears the
recording costs. Any party may
arrange to transcribe a deposition.
(B) Additional Method. With prior
notice to the deponent and other
parties, any party may designate
another method for recording the
testimony in addition to that
specified in the original notice. That
party bears the expense of the
additional record or transcript unless
the court orders otherwise.
(4) By Remote Means. The parties may
stipulate—or the court may on motion
order—that a deposition be taken by
telephone or other remote means. For the
purpose of this rule and RCFC 28(a) and
37(b)(1), the deposition takes place
where the deponent answers the
questions.
(5) Officer’s Duties.
(A) Before the Deposition. Unless the
parties stipulate otherwise, a
deposition must be conducted before
an officer appointed or designated
under RCFC 28. The officer must
begin the deposition with an on-therecord statement that includes:

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 29 is identical to its FRCP counterpart.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 29 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 30
Depositions by Oral Examination

(a) When a Deposition May Be Taken.
(1) Without Leave. A party may, by oral
questions, depose any person, including
a party, without leave of court except as
provided in RCFC 30(a)(2). The
deponent’s attendance may be compelled
by subpoena under RCFC 45.
(2) With Leave. A party must obtain leave of
court, and the court must grant leave to
the extent consistent with RCFC 26(b)(1)
and (2):
(A) if the parties have not stipulated to
the deposition and:
(i) the deposition would result in
more than 10 depositions being
taken under this rule or RCFC 31
by the plaintiffs, or by the
defendant, or by the third-party
defendants;
(ii) the deponent has already been
deposed in the case; or
(iii) the party seeks to take the
deposition before the time
specified in RCFC 26(d), unless
the party certifies in the notice,
with supporting facts, that the
deponent is expected to leave the
United States and be unavailable
for examination in this country
after that time; or
(B) if the deponent is confined in prison.
(b) Notice of the Deposition; Other Formal
Requirements.
(1) Notice in General. A party who wants to
depose a person by oral questions must
give reasonable written notice to every
other party. The notice must state the
time and place of the deposition and, if
known, the deponent’s name and
47

RCFC 30

and
(i) the officer’s
name
business address;
(ii) the date, time, and place of the
deposition;
(iii) the deponent’s name;
(iv) the officer’s administration of
the oath or affirmation to the
deponent; and
(v) the identity of all persons
present.
(B) Conducting
the
Deposition;
Avoiding
Distortion.
If
the
deposition
is
recorded
nonstenographically, the officer
must repeat the items in RCFC
30(b)(5)(A)(i)–(iii) at the beginning
of each unit of the recording
medium. The deponent’s and
attorneys’ appearance or demeanor
must not be distorted through
recording techniques.
(C) After the Deposition. At the end of a
deposition, the officer must state on
the record that the deposition is
complete and must set out any
stipulations made by the attorneys
about custody of the transcript or
recording and of the exhibits, or
about any other pertinent matters.
(6) Notice or Subpoena Directed to an
Organization. In its notice or subpoena,
a party may name as the deponent a
public or private corporation, a
partnership,
an
association,
a
governmental agency, or other entity and
must
describe
with
reasonable
particularity the matters for examination.
The named organization must then
designate one or more officers, directors,
or managing agents, or designate other
persons who consent to testify on its
behalf; and it may set out the matters on
which each person designated will
testify. Before or promptly after the
notice or subpoena is served, and
continuing as necessary, the serving
party and the organization must confer in
good faith about the number and
description of the matters for
examination and the identity of each
person the organization will designate to
RCFC 30 cont.

testify. A subpoena must advise a
nonparty organization of its duty to make
this designation and to confer with the
serving party. The persons designated
must testify about information known or
reasonably available to the organization.
This paragraph (6) does not preclude a
deposition by any other procedure
allowed by these rules.
(c) Examination and Cross-Examination;
Record of the Examination; Objections;
Written Questions.
(1) Examination and Cross-Examination.
The examination and cross-examination
of a deponent proceed as they would at
trial under the Federal Rules of Evidence,
except Rules 103 and 615. After putting
the deponent under oath or affirmation,
the officer must record the testimony by
the method designated under RCFC
30(b)(3)(A). The testimony must be
recorded by the officer personally or by a
person acting in the presence and under
the direction of the officer.
(2) Objections. An objection at the time of
the examination—whether to evidence,
to a party’s conduct, to the officer’s
qualifications, to the manner of taking
the deposition, or to any other aspect of
the deposition—must be noted on the
record, but the examination still
proceeds; the testimony is taken subject
to any objection. An objection must be
stated concisely in a nonargumentative
and nonsuggestive manner. A person
may instruct a deponent not to answer
only when necessary to preserve a
privilege, to enforce a limitation ordered
by the court, or to present a motion under
RCFC 30(d)(3).
(3) Participating
Through
Written
Questions. Instead of participating in the
oral examination, a party may serve
written questions in a sealed envelope on
the party noticing the deposition, who
must deliver them to the officer. The
officer must ask the deponent those
questions and record the answers
verbatim.
(d) Duration; Sanction; Motion to Terminate
or Limit.
48

(1) Duration. Unless otherwise stipulated or
ordered by the court, a deposition is
limited to 1 day of 7 hours. The court
must allow additional time consistent
with RCFC 26(b)(1) and (2) if needed to
fairly examine the deponent or if the
deponent, another person, or any other
circumstance impedes or delays the
examination.
(2) Sanction. The court may impose an
appropriate sanction—including the
reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees
incurred by any party—on a person who
impedes, delays, or frustrates the fair
examination of the deponent.
(3) Motion to Terminate or Limit.
(A) Grounds. At any time during a
deposition, the deponent or a party
may move to terminate or limit it on
the ground that it is being conducted
in bad faith or in a manner that
unreasonably annoys, embarrasses,
or oppresses the deponent or party. If
the objecting deponent or party so
demands, the deposition must be
suspended for the time necessary to
obtain an order.
(B) Order. The court may order that the
deposition be terminated or may
limit its scope and manner as
provided in RCFC 26(c). If
terminated, the deposition may be
resumed only by order of the court.
(C) Award of Expenses. RCFC 37(a)(5)
applies to the award of expenses.
(e) Review by the Witness; Changes.
(1) Review; Statement of Changes. On
request by the deponent or a party before
the deposition is completed, the deponent
must be allowed 30 days after being
notified by the officer that the transcript
or recording is available in which:
(A) to review the transcript or recording;
and
(B) if there are changes in form or
substance, to sign a statement listing
the changes and the reasons for
making them.
(2) Changes Indicated in the Officer’s
Certificate. The officer must note in the
certificate prescribed by RCFC 30(f)(1)

whether a review was requested and, if
so, must attach any changes the deponent
makes during the 30-day period.
(f) Certification and Delivery; Exhibits;
Copies of the Transcript or Recording;
Filing.
(1) Certification and Delivery. The officer
must certify in writing that the witness
was duly sworn and that the deposition
accurately records the witness’s
testimony.
The
certificate
must
accompany the record of the deposition.
Unless the court orders otherwise, the
officer must seal the deposition in an
envelope or package bearing the title of
the action and marked “Deposition of
[witness’s name]” and must promptly
send it to the attorney who arranged for
the transcript or recording. The attorney
must store it under conditions that will
protect it against loss, destruction,
tampering, or deterioration.
(2) Documents and Tangible Things.
(A) Originals and Copies. Documents
and tangible things produced for
inspection during a deposition must,
on a party’s request, be marked for
identification and attached to the
deposition. Any party may inspect
and copy them. But if the person who
produced them wants to keep the
originals, the person may:
(i) offer copies to be marked,
attached to the deposition, and
then used as originals—after
giving all parties a fair
opportunity to verify the copies
by comparing them with the
originals; or
(ii) give all parties a fair opportunity
to inspect and copy the originals
after they are marked—in which
event the originals may be used
as if attached to the deposition.
(B) Order Regarding the Originals. Any
party may move for an order that the
originals be attached to the
deposition pending final disposition
of the case.
(3) Copies of the Transcript or Recording.
Unless otherwise stipulated or ordered by
49

RCFC 30 cont.

(1) Without Leave. A party may, by written
questions, depose any person, including
a party, without leave of court except as
provided in RCFC 31(a)(2). The
deponent’s attendance may be compelled
by subpoena under RCFC 45.
(2) With Leave. A party must obtain leave of
court, and the court must grant leave to
the extent consistent with RCFC 26(b)(1)
and (2):
(A) if the parties have not stipulated to
the deposition and:
(i) the deposition would result in
more than 10 depositions being
taken under this rule or RCFC 30
by the plaintiffs, or by the
defendant, or by the third-party
defendants;
(ii) the deponent has already been
deposed in the case; or
(iii) the party seeks to take a
deposition before the time
specified in RCFC 26(d); or
(B) if the deponent is confined in prison.
(3) Service; Required Notice. A party who
wants to depose a person by written
questions must serve them on every other
party, with a notice stating, if known, the
deponent’s name and address. If the
name is unknown, the notice must
provide a general description sufficient
to identify the person or the particular
class or group to which the person
belongs. The notice must also state the
name or descriptive title and the address
of the officer before whom the deposition
will be taken.
(4) Questions Directed to an Organization.
A public or private corporation, a
partnership, an association, or a
governmental agency may be deposed by
written questions in accordance with
RCFC 30(b)(6).
(5) Questions from Other Parties. Any
questions to the deponent from other
parties must be served on all parties as
follows: cross-questions, within 14 days
after being served with the notice and
direct questions; redirect questions,
within 7 days after being served with
cross-questions; and recross-questions,

the court, the officer must retain the
stenographic notes of a deposition taken
stenographically or a copy of the
recording of a deposition taken by
another method. When paid reasonable
charges, the officer must furnish a copy
of the transcript or recording to any party
or the deponent.
(4) Notice of Filing. [Not used.]
(g) Failure to Attend a Deposition or Serve a
Subpoena; Expenses. A party who,
expecting a deposition to be taken, attends in
person or by an attorney may recover
reasonable expenses for attending, including
attorney’s fees, if the noticing party failed to:
(1) attend and proceed with the deposition;
or
(2) serve a subpoena on a nonparty
deponent, who consequently did not
attend.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1, 2016, Aug. 2,
2021.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 30 parallels the structure and content
of its FRCP counterpart. The limited number of
differences between the two rules reflects those
necessary for compatibility with the jurisdiction
and other rules of the court.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 30 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2016 Amendment
RCFC 30 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 30 that
became effective December 1, 2015.
2021 Amendment
RCFC 30(b)(6) has been amended in
accordance with the corresponding changes to
FRCP 30(b)(6) that became effective December
1, 2020.

## RCFC 31
Depositions by Written Questions

(a) When a Deposition May Be Taken.

RCFC 31

50

(B) it is used to the extent it would be
admissible under the Federal Rules
of Evidence if the deponent were
present and testifying; and
(C) the use is allowed by RCFC 32(a)(2)
through (8).
(2) Impeachment and Other Uses. Any
party may use a deposition to contradict
or impeach the testimony given by the
deponent as a witness, or for any other
purpose allowed by the Federal Rules of
Evidence.
(3) Deposition of Party, Agent, or Designee.
An adverse party may use for any
purpose the deposition of a party or
anyone who, when deposed, was the
party’s officer, director, managing agent,
or designee under RCFC 30(b)(6) or
31(a)(4).
(4) Unavailable Witness. A party may use
for any purpose the deposition of a
witness, whether or not a party, if the
court finds:
(A) that the witness is dead;
(B) that the witness is outside the United
States, unless it appears that the
witness’s absence was procured by
the party offering the deposition;
(C) that the witness cannot attend or
testify because of age, illness,
infirmity, or imprisonment;
(D) that the party offering the deposition
could not procure the witness’s
attendance by subpoena; or
(E) on motion and notice, that
exceptional circumstances make it
desirable—in the interest of justice
and with due regard to the
importance of live testimony in open
court—to permit the deposition to be
used.
(5) Limitations on Use.
(A) Deposition Taken on Short Notice.
A deposition must not be used
against a party who, having received
less than 14 days’ notice of the
deposition, promptly moved for a
protective order under RCFC
26(c)(1)(B) requesting that it not be
taken or be taken at a different time
or place—and this motion was still

within 7 days after being served with
redirect questions. The court may, for
good cause, extend or shorten these
times.
(b) Delivery to the Officer; Officer’s Duties.
The party who noticed the deposition must
deliver to the officer a copy of all questions
served and of the notice. The officer must
promptly proceed in the manner provided in
RCFC 30(c), (e), and (f) to:
(1) take the deponent’s testimony in
response to the questions;
(2) prepare and certify the deposition; and
(3) send it to the party, attaching a copy of
the questions and of the notice.
(c) Notice of Completion or Filing.
(1) Completion. The party who noticed the
deposition must notify all other parties
when it is completed.
(2) Filing. [Not used.]
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1, 2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 31 closely parallels the text of FRCP
31. Subdivision (a) is identical in wording to the
current FRCP. Subdivisions (b) and (c) are nearly
identical, the only differences being those
necessary to reflect the court’s practice of not
requiring depositions to be filed.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 31 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2016 Amendment
RCFC 31 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding change to FRCP 31 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

## RCFC 32
Using

Depositions
in
Court
Proceedings
(a) Using Depositions.
(1) In General. At a hearing or trial, all or
part of a deposition may be used against
a party on these conditions:
(A) the party was present or represented
at the taking of the deposition or had
reasonable notice of it;
51

RCFC 32

officer before whom a deposition is to be
taken is waived if not made:
(A) before the deposition begins; or
(B) promptly after the basis for
disqualification becomes known or,
with reasonable diligence, could
have been known.
(3) To the Taking of the Deposition.
(A) Objection
to
Competence,
Relevance, or Materiality. An
objection
to
a
deponent’s
competence—or to the competence,
relevance,
or
materiality
of
testimony—is not waived by a
failure to make the objection before
or during the deposition, unless the
ground for it might have been
corrected at that time.
(B) Objection to an Error or
Irregularity. An objection to an error
or irregularity at an oral examination
is waived if:
(i) it relates to the manner of taking
the deposition, the form of a
question or answer, the oath or
affirmation, a party’s conduct, or
other matters that might have
been corrected at that time; and
(ii) it is not timely made during the
deposition.
(C) Objection to a Written Question. An
objection to the form of a written
question under RCFC 31 is waived if
not served in writing on the party
submitting the question within the
time for serving responsive questions
or, if the question is a recrossquestion, within 7 days after being
served with it.
(4) To Completing and Returning the
Deposition. An objection to how the
officer transcribed the testimony—or
prepared, signed, certified, sealed,
endorsed, sent, or otherwise dealt with
the deposition—is waived unless a
motion to suppress is made promptly
after the error or irregularity becomes
known or, with reasonable diligence,
could have been known.

pending when the deposition was
taken.
(B) Unavailable Deponent; Party Could
Not Obtain an Attorney. A
deposition taken without leave of
court under the unavailability
provision of RCFC 30(a)(2)(A)(iii)
must not be used against a party who
shows that, when served with the
notice, it could not, despite diligent
efforts, obtain an attorney to
represent it at the deposition.
(6) Using Part of a Deposition. If a party
offers in evidence only part of a
deposition, an adverse party may require
the offeror to introduce other parts that in
fairness should be considered with the
part introduced, and any party may itself
introduce any other parts.
(7) Substituting a Party. Substituting a party
under RCFC 25 does not affect the right
to use a deposition previously taken.
(8) Deposition Taken in an Earlier Action.
A deposition lawfully taken and, if
required, filed in any federal- or statecourt action may be used in a later action
involving the same subject matter
between the same parties, or their
representatives or successors in interest,
to the same extent as if taken in the later
action. A deposition previously taken
may also be used as allowed by the
Federal Rules of Evidence.
(b) Objections to Admissibility. Subject to
RCFC 28(b) and 32(d)(3), an objection may
be made at a hearing or trial to the admission
of any deposition testimony that would be
inadmissible if the witness were present and
testifying.
(c) Form of Presentation. Unless the court
orders otherwise, a party must provide a
transcript of any deposition testimony the
party offers, but may provide the court with
the testimony in nontranscript form as well.
(d) Waiver of Objections.
(1) To the Notice. An objection to an error or
irregularity in a deposition notice is
waived unless promptly served in writing
on the party giving the notice.
(2) To the Officer’s Qualification. An
objection based on disqualification of the
RCFC 32 cont.

52

written interrogatories, including all
discrete subparts. Leave to serve
additional interrogatories may be granted
to the extent consistent with RCFC
26(b)(1) and (2).
(2) Scope. An interrogatory may relate to
any matter that may be inquired into
under RCFC 26(b). An interrogatory is
not objectionable merely because it asks
for an opinion or contention that relates
to fact or the application of law to fact,
but the court may order that the
interrogatory need not be answered until
designated discovery is complete, or until
a pretrial conference or some other time.
(b) Answers and Objections.
(1) Responding Party. The interrogatories
must be answered:
(A) by the party to whom they are
directed; or
(B) if that party is a public or private
corporation, a partnership, an
association, or a governmental
agency, by any officer or agent, who
must furnish the information
available to the party.
(2) Time to Respond. The responding party
must serve its answers and any objections
within 30 days after being served with
the interrogatories. A shorter or longer
time may be stipulated to under RCFC 29
or be ordered by the court.
(3) Answering Each Interrogatory. Each
interrogatory must, to the extent it is not
objected to, be answered separately and
fully in writing under oath.
(4) Objections. The grounds for objecting to
an interrogatory must be stated with
specificity. Any ground not stated in a
timely objection is waived unless the
court, for good cause, excuses the failure.
(5) Signature. The person who makes the
answers must sign them, and the attorney
who objects must sign any objections.
(c) Use. An answer to an interrogatory may be
used to the extent allowed by the Federal
Rules of Evidence.
(d) Option to Produce Business Records. If the
answer to an interrogatory may be
determined
by examining, auditing,
compiling, abstracting, or summarizing a

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 32 is identical to its FRCP counterpart,
except for (1) omission of the last sentence in
subdivision (c), applicable only in jury trials, (2)
deletion of the word “filed” in subdivision (d)(4),
because this court does not require that
depositions routinely be filed, and (3) revision of
subparagraphs (a)(3)(B) and (E) to require
application and notice for the use of depositions
of a witness who is at a greater distance than 100
miles from the place of trial or hearing.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 32 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, in the interest of structural
clarity, the text of former subparagraph (a)(3)(E)
(relating to the requirement governing the use at
trial of the deposition of a witness located more
than 100 miles from the place of trial or hearing)
has been incorporated into restyled subparagraph
(a)(4)(B).
2010 Amendment
RCFC 32(a)(4) has been amended to more
closely parallel its FRCP counterpart, except that
the provision in subparagraph (a)(4)(B) allowing
the use of deposition testimony where the witness
is more than 100 miles from the place of trial has
been stricken to reinforce the court’s clear
preference for live testimony, particularly given
the availability of video and telephone
conferencing. A witness’s distance from the place
of trial may nevertheless be considered as a basis
for the allowance of deposition testimony under
the “exceptional circumstances” provision of
subparagraph (a)(4)(E).
In addition, the time periods of 11 and 5 days
formerly set forth in RCFC 32 have been changed
to 14 and 7 days, respectively, in accordance with
the corresponding changes to FRCP 32 that
became effective December 1, 2009.

## RCFC 33
Interrogatories to Parties

(a) In General.
(1) Number. Unless otherwise stipulated or
ordered by the court, a party may serve
on any other party no more than 25
53

RCFC 33

(A) any designated documents or
electronically stored information—
including writings, drawings, graphs,
charts,
photographs,
sound
recordings, images, and other data or
data compilations—stored in any
medium from which information can
be obtained either directly or, if
necessary, after translation by the
responding party into a reasonably
usable form; or
(B) any designated tangible things; or
(2) to permit entry onto designated land or
other property possessed or controlled by
the responding party, so that the
requesting party may inspect, measure,
survey, photograph, test, or sample the
property or any designated object or
operation on it.
(b) Procedure.
(1) Contents of the Request. The request:
(A) must describe with reasonable
particularity each item or category of
items to be inspected;
(B) must specify a reasonable time,
place, and manner for the inspection
and for performing the related acts;
and
(C) may specify the form or forms in
which
electronically
stored
information is to be produced.
(2) Responses and Objections.
(A) Time to Respond. The party to whom
the request is directed must respond
in writing within 30 days after being
served or—if the request was
delivered under RCFC 26(d)(2)—
within 30 days after the Early
Meeting of Counsel (see Appendix A
¶ 3). A shorter or longer time may be
stipulated to under RCFC 29 or be
ordered by the court.
(B) Responding to Each Item. For each
item or category, the response must
either state that inspection and
related activities will be permitted as
requested or state with specificity the
grounds for objecting to the request,
including
the
reasons.
The
responding party may state that it
will produce copies of documents or

party’s
business
records
(including
electronically stored information), and if the
burden of deriving or ascertaining the answer
will be substantially the same for either party,
the responding party may answer by:
(1) specifying the records that must be
reviewed, in sufficient detail to enable
the interrogating party to locate and
identify them as readily as the responding
party could; and
(2) giving the interrogating party a
reasonable opportunity to examine and
audit the records and to make copies,
compilations, abstracts, or summaries.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1
2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 33 is identical to FRCP 33.
2007 Amendment
RCFC 33 has been amended to reflect the
corresponding changes to FRCP 33 that became
effective December 1, 2006.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 33 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2016 Amendment
RCFC 33 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding change to FRCP 33 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

## RCFC 34
P r o d u c i n g D o c u m e n t s,

Electronically Stored Information,
and Tangible Things, or Entering
onto Land, for Inspection and Other
Purposes
(a) In General. A party may serve on any other
party a request within the scope of RCFC
26(b):
(1) to produce and permit the requesting
party or its representative to inspect,
copy, test, or sample the following items
in the responding party’s possession,
custody, or control:

RCFC 34

54

documents and tangible things or to permit an
inspection.

of electronically stored information
instead of permitting inspection. The
production must then be completed
no later than the time for inspection
specified in the request or another
reasonable time specified in the
response.
(C) Objections. An objection must state
whether any responsive materials are
being withheld on the basis of that
objection. An objection to part of a
request must specify the part and
permit inspection of the rest.
(D) Responding to a Request for
Production of Electronically Stored
Information. The response may state
an objection to a requested form for
producing electronically stored
information. If the responding party
objects to a requested form—or if no
form was specified in the request—
the party must state the form or forms
it intends to use.
(E) Producing the Documents or
Electronically Stored Information.
Unless otherwise stipulated or
ordered by the court, these
procedures apply to producing
documents or electronically stored
information:
(i) A party must produce documents
as they are kept in the usual
course of business or must
organize and label them to
correspond to the categories in
the request;
(ii) If a request does not specify a
form
for
producing
stored
electronically
information, a party must
produce it in a form or forms in
which it is ordinarily maintained
or in a reasonably usable form or
forms; and
(iii) A party need not produce the
same
electronically
stored
information in more than one
form.
(c) Nonparties. As provided in RCFC 45, a
nonparty may be compelled to produce

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1,
2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 34 is identical to FRCP 34.
2007 Amendment
RCFC 34 has been amended to reflect the
corresponding changes to FRCP 34 that became
effective December 1, 2006.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 34 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2016 Amendment
RCFC 34 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 34 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

## RCFC 35
Physical and Mental Examinations

(a) Order for an Examination.
(1) In General. The court may order a party
whose mental or physical condition—
including blood group—is in controversy
to submit to a physical or mental
examination by a suitably licensed or
certified examiner. The court has the
same authority to order a party to produce
for examination a person who is in its
custody or under its legal control.
(2) Motion and Notice; Contents of the
Order. The order:
(A) may be made only on motion for
good cause and on notice to all
parties and the person to be
examined; and
(B) must specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, and scope of the
examination, as well as the person or
persons who will perform it.
(b) Examiner’s Report.
(1) Request by the Party or Person
Examined. The party who moved for the
examination must, on request, deliver to
the requester a copy of the examiner’s
55

RCFC 35

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 35 is identical to FRCP 35, except for
the omission of the words “in which the action is
pending” in subdivision (a).

report, together with like reports of all
earlier examinations of the same
condition. The request may be made by
the party against whom the examination
order was issued or by the person
examined.
(2) Contents. The examiner’s report must be
in writing and must set out in detail the
examiner’s
findings,
including
diagnoses, conclusions, and the results of
any tests.
(3) Request by the Moving Party. After
delivering the reports, the party who
moved for the examination may
request—and is entitled to receive—from
the party against whom the examination
order was issued like reports of all earlier
or later examinations of the same
condition. But those reports need not be
delivered by the party with custody or
control of the person examined if the
party shows that it could not obtain them.
(4) Waiver of Privilege. By requesting and
obtaining the examiner’s report, or by
deposing the examiner, the party
examined waives any privilege it may
have—in that action or any other action
involving the same controversy—
concerning
testimony
about
all
examinations of the same condition.
(5) Failure to Deliver a Report. The court on
motion may order—on just terms—that a
party deliver the report of an
examination. If the report is not provided,
the court may exclude the examiner’s
testimony at trial.
(6) Scope. This subdivision (b) applies also
to an examination made by the parties’
agreement, unless the agreement states
otherwise. This subdivision does not
preclude obtaining an examiner’s report
or deposing an examiner under other
rules.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 35 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 36
Requests for Admission

(a) Scope and Procedure.
(1) Scope. A party may serve on any other
party a written request to admit, for
purposes of the pending action only, the
truth of any matters within the scope of
RCFC 26(b)(1) relating to:
(A) facts, the application of law to fact,
or opinions about either; and
(B) the genuineness of any described
documents.
(2) Form; Copy of a Document. Each matter
must be separately stated. A request to
admit the genuineness of a document
must be accompanied by a copy of the
document unless it is, or has been,
otherwise furnished or made available
for inspection and copying.
(3) Time to Respond; Effect of Not
Responding. A matter is admitted unless,
within 30 days after being served, the
party to whom the request is directed
serves on the requesting party a written
answer or objection addressed to the
matter and signed by the party or its
attorney. A shorter or longer time for
responding may be stipulated to under
RCFC 29 or be ordered by the court.
(4) Answer. If a matter is not admitted, the
answer must specifically deny it or state
in detail why the answering party cannot
truthfully admit or deny it. A denial must
fairly respond to the substance of the
matter; and when good faith requires that
a party qualify an answer or deny only a
part of a matter, the answer must specify
the part admitted and qualify or deny the
rest. The answering party may assert lack
of knowledge or information as a reason
for failing to admit or deny only if the
party states that it has made reasonable

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

RCFC 36

56

(1) In General. On notice to other parties
and all affected persons, a party may
move for an order compelling disclosure
or discovery. Consistent with RCFC 7.3,
the motion must include a certification
that the movant has in good faith
conferred or attempted to confer with the
person or party failing to make disclosure
or discovery in an effort to obtain it
without court action.
(2) Appropriate Court. [Not used.]
(3) Specific Motions.
(A) To Compel Disclosure. If a party
fails to make a disclosure required by
RCFC 26(a), any other party may
move to compel disclosure and for
appropriate sanctions.
(B) To Compel a Discovery Response. A
party seeking discovery may move
for an order compelling an answer,
designation,
production,
or
inspection. This motion may be
made if:
(i) a deponent fails to answer a
question asked under RCFC 30
or 31;
(ii) a corporation or other entity fails
to make a designation under
RCFC 30(b)(6) or 31(a)(4);
(iii) a party fails to answer an
interrogatory submitted under
RCFC 33; or
(iv) a party fails to produce
documents or fails to respond
that
inspection
will
be
permitted—or fails to permit
inspection—as requested under
RCFC 34.
(C) Related to a Deposition. When
taking an oral deposition, the party
asking a question may complete or
adjourn the examination before
moving for an order.
(4) Evasive or Incomplete Disclosure,
Answer, or Response. For purposes of
this subdivision (a), an evasive or
incomplete disclosure, answer, or
response must be treated as a failure to
disclose, answer, or respond.
(5) Payment of Expenses; Protective
Orders.

inquiry and that the information it knows
or can readily obtain is insufficient to
enable it to admit or deny.
(5) Objections. The grounds for objecting to
a request must be stated. A party must not
object solely on the ground that the
request presents a genuine issue for trial.
(6) Motion Regarding the Sufficiency of an
Answer or Objection. The requesting
party may move to determine the
sufficiency of an answer or objection.
Unless the court finds an objection
justified, it must order that an answer be
served. On finding that an answer does
not comply with this rule, the court may
order either that the matter is admitted or
that an amended answer be served. The
court may defer its final decision until a
pretrial conference or a specified time
before trial. RCFC 37(a)(5) applies to an
award of expenses.
(b) Effect of an Admission; Withdrawing or
Amending It. A matter admitted under this
rule is conclusively established unless the
court, on motion, permits the admission to be
withdrawn or amended. Subject to RCFC
16(e), the court may permit withdrawal or
amendment if it would promote the
presentation of the merits of the action and if
the court is not persuaded that it would
prejudice the requesting party in maintaining
or defending the action on the merits. An
admission under this rule is not an admission
for any other purpose and cannot be used
against the party in any other proceeding.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 36 is identical to FRCP 36.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 36 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 37
Failure to Make Disclosures or to

Cooperate in Discovery; Sanctions
(a) Motion for an Order Compelling
Disclosure or Discovery.
57

RCFC 37

(b) Failure to Comply with a Court Order.
(1) Sanctions Concerning Deponents. If the
court orders a deponent to be sworn or to
answer a question and the deponent fails
to obey, the failure may be treated as
contempt of court.
(2) Sanctions Concerning Parties.
(A) For Not Obeying a Discovery Order.
If a party or a party’s officer,
director, or managing agent—or a
witness designated under RCFC
30(b)(6) or 31(a)(4)—fails to obey
an order to provide or permit
discovery, including an order under
RCFC 16(b), 35, or 37(a), the court
may issue further just orders. They
may include the following:
(i) directing that the matters
embraced in the order or other
designated facts be taken as
established for purposes of the
action, as the prevailing party
claims;
(ii) prohibiting the disobedient party
from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses, or
from introducing designated
matters in evidence;
(iii) striking pleadings in whole or in
part;
(iv) staying further proceedings until
the order is obeyed;
(v) dismissing the action or
proceeding in whole or in part;
(vi) rendering a default judgment
against the disobedient party; or
(vii) treating as contempt of court the
failure to obey any order except
an order to submit to a physical
or mental examination.
(B) For Not Producing a Person for
Examination. If a party fails to
comply with an order under RCFC
35(a) requiring it to produce another
person for examination, the court
may issue any of the orders listed in
RCFC 37(b)(2)(A)(i)–(vi), unless the
disobedient party shows that it
cannot produce the other person.
(C) Payment of Expenses. Instead of or
in addition to the orders above, the

(A) If the Motion Is Granted (or
Disclosure or Discovery Is Provided
After Filing). If the motion is
granted—or if the disclosure or
requested discovery is provided after
the motion was filed—the court
must, after giving an opportunity to
be heard, require the party or
deponent
whose
conduct
necessitated the motion, the party or
attorney advising that conduct, or
both to pay the movant’s reasonable
expenses incurred in making the
motion, including attorney’s fees.
But the court must not order this
payment if:
(i) the movant filed the motion
before attempting in good faith
to obtain the disclosure or
discovery without court action;
(ii) the
opposing
party’s
nondisclosure, response, or
objection was substantially
justified; or
(iii) other circumstances make an
award of expenses unjust.
(B) If the Motion Is Denied. If the
motion is denied, the court may issue
any protective order authorized
under RCFC 26(c) and must, after
giving an opportunity to be heard,
require the movant, the attorney
filing the motion, or both to pay the
party or deponent who opposed the
motion its reasonable expenses
incurred in opposing the motion,
including attorney’s fees. But the
court must not order this payment if
the motion was substantially justified
or other circumstances make an
award of expenses unjust.
(C) If the Motion Is Granted in Part and
Denied in Part. If the motion is
granted in part and denied in part, the
court may issue any protective order
authorized under RCFC 26(c) and
may, after giving an opportunity to
be heard, apportion the reasonable
expenses for the motion.

RCFC 37 cont.

58

(A) Motion; Grounds for Sanctions.
The court may, on motion, order
sanctions if:
(i)
a party or a party’s officer,
director, or managing agent—
or a person designated under
RCFC 30(b)(6) or 31(a)(4)—
fails, after being served with
proper notice, to appear for
that person’s deposition; or
(ii) a party, after being properly
served with interrogatories
under RCFC 33 or a request
for inspection under RCFC 34,
fails to serve its answers,
objections,
or
written
response.
(B) Certification. A motion for sanctions
for failing to answer or respond must
include a certification that the
movant has in good faith conferred
or attempted to confer with the party
failing to act in an effort to obtain the
answer or response without court
action.
(2) Unacceptable Excuse for Failing to Act.
A failure described in RCFC 37(d)(1)(A)
is not excused on the ground that the
discovery sought was objectionable,
unless the party failing to act has a
pending motion for a protective order
under RCFC 26(c).
(3) Types of Sanctions. Sanctions may
include any of the orders listed in RCFC
37(b)(2)(A)(i)–(vi). Instead of or in
addition to these sanctions, the court
must require the party failing to act, the
attorney advising that party, or both to
pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, caused by the failure,
unless the failure was substantially
justified or other circumstances make an
award of expenses unjust.
(e) Failure to Preserve Electronically Stored
Information. If electronically stored
information that should have been preserved
in the anticipation or conduct of litigation is
lost because a party failed to take reasonable
steps to preserve it, and it cannot be restored
or replaced through additional discovery, the
court:

court must order the disobedient
party, the attorney advising that
party, or both to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees,
caused by the failure, unless the
failure was substantially justified or
other circumstances make an award
of expenses unjust.
(c) Failure to Disclose, to Supplement an
Earlier Response, or to Admit.
(1) Failure to Disclose or Supplement. If a
party fails to provide information or
identify a witness as required by RCFC
26(a) or (e), the party is not allowed to
use that information or witness to supply
evidence on a motion, at a hearing, or at
a trial, unless the failure was
substantially justified or is harmless. In
addition to or instead of this sanction, the
court, on motion and after giving an
opportunity to be heard:
(A) may order payment of the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees,
caused by the failure;
(B) [not used]; and
(C) may impose other appropriate
sanctions, including any of the orders
listed in RCFC 37(b)(2)(A)(i)–(vi).
(2) Failure to Admit. If a party fails to admit
what is requested under RCFC 36 and if
the requesting party later proves a
document to be genuine or the matter
true, the requesting party may move that
the party who failed to admit pay the
reasonable
expenses,
including
attorney’s fees, incurred in making that
proof. The court must so order unless:
(A) the request was held objectionable
under RCFC 36(a);
(B) the admission sought was of no
substantial importance;
(C) the party failing to admit had a
reasonable ground to believe that it
might prevail on the matter; or
(D) there was other good reason for the
failure to admit.
(d) Party’s Failure to Attend Its Own
Deposition,
Serve
Answers
to
Interrogatories, or Respond to a Request
for Inspection.
(1) In General.
59

RCFC 37 cont.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 37(a) has been amended to cross
reference newly adopted RCFC 7.3.

(1) upon finding prejudice to another party
from loss of the information, may order
measures no greater than necessary to
cure the prejudice; or
(2) only upon finding that the party acted
with the intent to deprive another party of
the information’s use in the litigation
may:
(A) presume that the lost information
was unfavorable to the party;
(B) [not used]; or
(C) dismiss the action or enter a default
judgment.
(f) Failure to Participate in Framing a
Discovery Plan. If a party or its attorney fails
to participate in good faith in developing and
submitting a proposed discovery plan as
required by Appendix A ¶ 3, the court may,
after giving an opportunity to be heard,
require that party or attorney to pay to any
other party the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, caused by the
failure.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 1,
2016, July 31, 2023.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 37 parallels the structure and content
of FRCP 37. The limited number of differences
between the two rules reflects those necessary for
compatibility with the jurisdiction and other rules
of the court.
2007 Amendment
RCFC 37 has been amended to reflect the
corresponding changes to FRCP 37 that became
effective December 1, 2006.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 37 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2016 Amendment
RCFC 37 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 37 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

RCFC 37 cont.

60

TITLE VI.

TRIALS

that the transfer is necessary for the efficient
administration of justice.

## RCFC 38
Right to a Jury Trial; Demand [Not

used.]

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 3, 2015.)

## RCFC 39
Trial by Jury or by the Court [Not

used.]

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 40.1 has no FRCP counterpart. The
substance of the rule formerly appeared in these
rules as part of paragraph (1) of RCFC 77(f). The
renumbering of RCFC 77(f) reflects its more
logical placement in the structure of the court’s
rules.
The new language introduced by the rule—
subdivision (b)—represents a codification of
internal procedures.

## RCFC 40
Scheduling Cases for Trial

The judge to whom a case is assigned is
responsible for setting the case for trial by filing
an order with the clerk. The court must give
priority to actions entitled to priority by a federal
statute.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 40.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 40 parallels, but is not identical to,
FRCP 40. Like its FRCP counterpart, however,
the purpose of the rule is to identify the
responsibility of the judge in scheduling a matter
for trial. The changes made to the text of the rule
are minor and intended to clarify the rule’s
essential purpose, i.e., that it is the judge’s
responsibility to determine the date and place of
trial in accordance with 28 U.S.C. §§ 173, 798(a),
and 2503(c).

2015 Amendment
RCFC 40.1(b) has been amended to clarify
that the authority to transfer a case also includes
the authority to sever and transfer part of a case.

## RCFC 40.2
Related Cases

(a) Directly Related Cases.
(1) In General. If a party is aware of the
existence of any directly related case(s),
the party must file a Notice of Directly
Related Case(s).
(2) Definition. For the purpose of this rule,
cases are directly related when:
(A) they involve the same parties and are
based on the same or similar claims;
or
(B) they involve the same solicitation,
contract, property, or patent.
(3) Notice.
(A) Contents. The Notice of Directly
Related Case(s):
(i) must identify the title and docket
number of all directly related
cases;
(ii) must explain why the cases
qualify for treatment as directly
related cases under RCFC
40.2(a)(2);

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 40 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 40.1
Assigning and Transferring Cases

(a) Random Assignment. After a complaint is
served on the United States, or after recusal
or disqualification of a judge to whom the
case is assigned, the case will be assigned (or
reassigned) to a judge at random.
(b) Transfer. To promote docket efficiency, to
conform to the requirements of any case
management plan, or for the efficient
administration of justice, the assigned judge,
either on a party’s motion or on the court’s
own initiative, may order the transfer of all or
any part of a case to another judge upon the
agreement of both judges.
(c) Transfer by the Chief Judge. The chief
judge may reassign any case upon a finding
61

RCFC 38, 39, 40, 40.1 and 40.2

(iii) must state whether assigning the
cases to a single judge can be
expected to conserve judicial
resources and promote the
efficient
administration
of
justice; and
(iv) if filed after the case has been
assigned, may be accompanied
by a motion to transfer pursuant
to
RCFC 40.1
or for
consolidation pursuant to RCFC
42.1.
(B) Filing. A party must file the Notice
of Directly Related Case(s):
(i) along with the complaint in a
newly filed case; or
(ii) in the earliest-filed related case if
the existence of directly related
cases becomes apparent only
after initial assignment. Counsel
must also file copies of the notice
in all of the directly related cases
and may appear in those cases
solely for purposes of filing the
notice.
If the filing is made in paper form or
by e-mail consistent with Appendix
E to these rules, the clerk must file
copies of the notice in all of the
directly related cases.
(C) Service. A party must serve the
Notice of Directly Related Case(s)
on all parties in the related cases.
(4) Treatment of Directly Related Cases.
(A) When a Notice of Directly Related
Case(s) is filed with a complaint, the
clerk will assign the case to the judge
to whom the earliest-filed case is
assigned. If the judge determines that
the case is not in fact directly related
to the earliest-filed case, the judge
will return the case to the clerk for
random reassignment.
(B) When a Notice of Directly Related
Case(s) is filed after a case has been
assigned and is accompanied by a
motion
to
transfer
or
for
consolidation, the judge in the
earliest-filed case, after consultation
with the judge(s) in the later-filed

RCFC 40.2 cont.

case(s), will grant or deny the motion
to transfer or for consolidation.
(b) Indirectly Related Cases.
(1) In General. If a party is aware of the
existence of any indirectly related
case(s), the party may file a Notice of
Indirectly Related Case(s).
(2) Definition. For the purpose of this rule,
cases are indirectly related when:
(A) they present common issues of fact;
and
(B) their consolidation for purposes of
coordinated discovery can be
expected significantly to promote the
efficient administration of justice.
(3) Notice.
(A) Contents. The Notice of Indirectly
Related Case(s):
(i) must identify the title and docket
number of all indirectly related
cases; and
(ii) must explain why the cases
qualify for treatment as
indirectly related cases under
RCFC 40.2(b)(2).
(B) Filing. A party must file the Notice
of Indirectly Related Case(s) in the
earliest-filed related case. Counsel
must also file copies of the notice in
all of the indirectly related cases and
may appear in those cases solely for
purposes of filing the notice or
responding to the notice under RCFC
40.2(b)(3)(D). If the filing is made in
paper form or by e-mail consistent
with Appendix E to these rules, the
clerk must file copies of the notice in
all of the indirectly related cases.
(C) Service. A party must serve the
Notice of Indirectly Related Case(s)
on all parties in the related cases.
(D) Responding. Any response to the
notice must be filed in the earliestfiled case within 21 days after
service of the notice and must be
served on all parties in the related
cases. Counsel must also file copies
of the response in all of the related
cases. If the filing is made in paper
form or by e-mail consistent with
Appendix E to these rules, the clerk
62

In addition, the text of subdivision (a) has
been modified to clarify that it is the clerk’s
responsibility to file a notice of directly related
cases in all related cases. The change thus adopts
the same notice procedure that is prescribed for
indirectly related cases under subdivision (b) of
this rule.

must file copies of the response in all
of the related cases.
(4) Treatment of Indirectly Related Cases.
When a Notice of Indirectly Related
Case(s) is filed, the judge in the earliestfiled case will call a meeting of all of the
assigned judges to determine what
action, if any, is appropriate. All parties
in the related cases will be notified of the
determination reached.

2021 Amendment
RCFC 40.2(a)(3)(B), (b)(3)(B), and (b)(3)(D)
have been amended to require counsel to file
copies of the notice and any response to the notice
in all of the related cases, and for paper filings, to
require the clerk to file copies in all of the related
cases.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 2, 2021, July 31,
2023, July 27, 2026.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 40.2 has no FRCP counterpart. The
subject of the rule—Related Cases—previously
appeared in these rules as RCFC 77(f) (as revised
by General Order No. 36). The renumbering of
the rule reflects its more logical placement in the
structure of the court’s rules.
Unlike the predecessor rule, RCFC 40.2
recognizes two types of related cases: directly
related cases and indirectly related cases. Directly
related cases retain the definition that applied
under former RCFC 77(f). Thus, cases that
“involve the same parties and are based on the
same or similar claims” or “involve the same
contract, property, or patent” are deemed to be
directly related. Cases that are directly related
share an identity of parties and/or subject matter
that, for the sake of consistency in outcome,
warrant their assignment to a single judge.
Indirectly related cases, by contrast, share only
“common issues of fact.” In the interests of
efficiency and the conservation of resources, such
cases may warrant consolidated management
during the pretrial stage.
In addition to recognizing two forms of
related cases, RCFC 40.2 also prescribes the
notice procedures that are to be followed for the
identification of such cases to the court and
interested counsel.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 40.2(a)(3)(B), (b)(3)(B), and (b)(3)(D)
have been amended to clarify that if the notice is
filed in paper form or via e-mail consistent with
Appendix E to these rules, the clerk is required to
file the notice in all of the directly or indirectly
related cases.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 40.2(a)(2) has been amended to
include a solicitation within the definition of
directly related cases.

## RCFC 40.3
Complaints Against Judges

(a) In General. A written complaint may be
filed with the clerk against any judge of the
court who has:
(1) engaged in conduct prejudicial to the
effective and expeditious administration
of the business of the court; or
(2) is unable to discharge all duties of the
office by reason of mental or physical
disability.
(b) Rules Governing Complaints. A copy of the
applicable rules, titled “Rules for JudicialConduct
and
Judicial-Disability
Proceedings,” is available on the court’s
website at www.uscfc.uscourts.gov or may
be obtained by contacting the Office of the
Clerk of the United States Court of Federal
Claims, 717 Madison Place, NW,
Washington, DC 20439.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 40.2 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

63

RCFC 40.3

## RCFC 41
Dismissal of Actions

(a) Voluntary Dismissal.
(1) By the Plaintiff.
(A) Without a Court Order. Subject to
RCFC 23(e) and 23.1(c) and any
applicable federal statute, the
plaintiff may dismiss an action
without a court order by filing:
(i) a notice of dismissal before the
opposing party serves an answer,
a motion for summary judgment,
or a motion for judgment on the
administrative record; or
(ii) a stipulation of dismissal signed
by all parties who have appeared.
(B) Effect. Unless the notice or
stipulation states otherwise, the
dismissal is without prejudice. But if
the plaintiff previously dismissed
any federal- or state-court action
based on or including the same
claim, a notice of dismissal operates
as an adjudication on the merits.
(2) By Court Order; Effect. Except as
provided in RCFC 41(a)(1), an action
may be dismissed at the plaintiff’s
request only by court order, on terms that
the court considers proper. If the
defendant has pleaded a counterclaim
before being served with the plaintiff’s
motion to dismiss, the action may be
dismissed over the defendant’s objection
only if the counterclaim can remain
pending for independent adjudication.
Unless the order states otherwise, a
dismissal under this paragraph (2) is
without prejudice.
(b) Involuntary Dismissal; Effect. If the
plaintiff fails to prosecute or to comply with
these rules or a court order, the court may
dismiss on its own motion or the defendant
may move to dismiss the action or any claim
against it. Unless the dismissal order states
otherwise, a dismissal under this subdivision
(b) and any dismissal not under this rule—
except one for lack of jurisdiction or failure
to join a party under RCFC 19—operates as
an adjudication on the merits.
(c) Dismissing a Counterclaim or Third-Party
Claim. This rule applies to a dismissal of any
counterclaim or third-party claim. A

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Aug. 1, 2004, Apr. 10, 2008, Nov. 3,
2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 40.3 has no FRCP counterpart.
However, the notice provided by the rule is in
accordance with the recommendations of the
Judicial Conference of the United States, urging
that such notice be made part of the court’s rules.
The rule replaces former Appendix B
(“Procedures for Processing Complaints of
Judicial Misconduct”) and its supplementing
order, General Order No. 34 dated June 3, 1993.
Inclusion of the rule as a subpart of RCFC 40 is
intended to further a more coherent
organizational structure of the court’s rules.
2004 Amendment
Pursuant to the Judicial Improvements Act of
2002, Pub. L. No. 107-203, 116 Stat. 1758, the
statutory directive requiring the court’s issuance
of rules for the filing of complaints of judicial
misconduct, originally set forth in the Judicial
Conduct and Disability Act of 1980, 28 U.S.C.
§ 372(c)(1)–(18), was amended and recodified as
28 U.S.C. §§ 351–364. This change is reflected in
the 2004 amendment to RCFC 40.3 in the
opening sentence of subdivision (a) by the
deletion of the former statutory reference and the
substitution of the new statutory reference.
Additionally, the rule has been amended to
include notice of the availability on the court’s
website of the Rules of the United States Court of
Federal Claims Governing Complaints of Judicial
Misconduct and Disability.
2008 Amendments
RCFC 40.3(b) has been amended to reflect
the change in the title of the rules establishing
standards and procedures for addressing
complaints against judges, as revised and
promulgated by the Judicial Conference of the
United States pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 351–364
on March 11, 2008.
The language of RCFC 40.3 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

RCFC 41

64

(c) Separate Determinations of Liability and
Damages.
(1) In General. On stipulation of the parties
or on its own, the court may at any time
order that issues of liability and issues of
damages be addressed in separate
proceedings.
(2) Motion for Reconsideration. The parties
may file a motion for reconsideration
within 14 days after a separate
determination of liability.

claimant’s voluntary dismissal under RCFC
41(a)(1)(A)(i) must be made:
(1) before a responsive pleading is served; or
(2) if there is no responsive pleading, before
evidence is introduced at a hearing or
trial.
(d) Costs of a Previously Dismissed Action. If
a plaintiff who previously dismissed an
action in any court files an action based on or
including the same claim against the
defendant, the court:
(1) may order the plaintiff to pay all or part
of the costs of that previous action; and
(2) may stay the proceedings until the
plaintiff has complied.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes have been made to more
closely conform to FRCP 41. Substantively,
however, the rule remains unchanged.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 42 remains unchanged. Thus, as
before, the rule parallels in part FRCP 42 and, in
addition, includes subdivision (c) (“Separate
Determination of Liability”) permitting the
liability phase of a lawsuit to be separated from,
and decided independently of, the quantum
phase.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 41 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 42 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

2012 Amendment
RCFC 41(a)(1)(A)(i) has been amended to
clarify that the filing of a motion for judgment on
the administrative record by the opposing party is
an event that thereafter precludes a plaintiff from
dismissing an action without a court order.

2010 Amendment
The time period of 10 days formerly set forth
in RCFC 42 has been changed to 14 days in
accordance with the FRCP’s general guidelines
for time computation that became effective
December 1, 2009.

## RCFC 42
Consolidation; Separate Trials

(a) Consolidation. If actions before the court
involve a common question of law or fact, the
court may:
(1) join for hearing or trial any or all matters
at issue in the actions;
(2) consolidate the actions; or
(3) issue any other orders to avoid
unnecessary cost or delay.
(b) Separate Trials. For convenience, to avoid
prejudice, or to expedite and economize, the
court may order a separate trial of one or
more separate issues, claims, counterclaims,
or third-party claims.

## RCFC 42.1
Motion to Consolidate

(a) Consolidating Cases Assigned to the Same
Judge. If a party seeks to consolidate cases
assigned to the same judge, the party must
file a motion to consolidate in each of the
relevant cases.
(b) Consolidating Cases Assigned to Different
Judges. If a party seeks to consolidate cases
assigned to different judges, the party must
file a motion to transfer pursuant to RCFC
40.1, suggesting the appropriateness of
consolidation.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 2, 2012.)

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
65

RCFC 42 and 42.1

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 42.1 has no FRCP counterpart. It
identifies the procedure applicable to motions for
the consolidation of actions pending before
different judges.

in it—that is otherwise admissible and is
kept within the United States, any state,
district, or commonwealth, or any
territory subject to the administrative or
judicial jurisdiction of the United States:
(A) an official publication of the record;
or
(B) a copy attested by the officer with
legal custody of the record—or by
officer’s
deputy—and
the
accompanied by a certificate that the
officer has custody. The certificate
must be made under seal:
(i) by a judge of a court of record in
the
district
or
political
subdivision where the record is
kept; or
(ii) by any public officer with a seal
of office and with official duties
in the district or political
subdivision where the record is
kept.
(2) Foreign Record.
(A) In General. Each of the following
evidences a foreign official record—
or an entry in it—that is otherwise
admissible:
(i) an official publication of the
record; or
(ii) the record—or a copy—that is
attested by an authorized person
and is accompanied either by a
final certification of genuineness
or by a certification under a
treaty or convention to which
the United States and the country
where the record is located are
parties.
(B) Final Certification of Genuineness.
A final certification must certify the
genuineness of the signature and
official position of the attester or of
any foreign official whose certificate
of genuineness relates to the
attestation or is in a chain of
certificates of genuineness relating to
the attestation. A final certification
may be made by a secretary of a
United States embassy or legation;
by a consul general, vice consul, or
consular agent of the United States;

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 42.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

## RCFC 43
Taking Testimony

(a) In Open Court. At trial, the witnesses’
testimony must be taken in open court unless
a federal statute, the Federal Rules of
Evidence, these rules, or other rules adopted
by the Supreme Court provide otherwise. For
good cause in compelling circumstances and
with appropriate safeguards, the court may
permit testimony in open court by
contemporaneous transmission from a
different location.
(b) Affirmation Instead of an Oath. When
these rules require an oath, a solemn
affirmation suffices.
(c) Evidence on a Motion. When a motion relies
on facts outside the record, the court may
hear the matter on affidavits or may hear it
wholly or partly on oral testimony or on
depositions.
(d) Interpreter. The court may appoint an
interpreter of its choosing; fix reasonable
compensation to be paid from funds provided
by law or by one or more parties; and tax the
compensation as costs.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 43 is identical to FRCP 43.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 43 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 44
Proving an Official Record

(a) Means of Proving.
(1) Domestic Record. Each of the following
evidences an official record—or an entry
RCFC 43 and 44

66

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

or by a diplomatic or consular
official of the foreign country
assigned or accredited to the United
States.
(C) Other Means of Proof. If all parties
have had a reasonable opportunity to
investigate a foreign record’s
authenticity and accuracy, the court
may, for good cause, either:
(i) admit an attested copy without
final certification; or
(ii) permit the record to be
evidenced by an attested
summary with or without a final
certification.
(b) Lack of a Record. A written statement that
a diligent search of designated records
revealed no record or entry of a specified
tenor is admissible as evidence that the
records contain no such record or entry. For
domestic records, the statement must be
authenticated under RCFC 44(a)(1). For
foreign records, the statement must comply
with (a)(2)(C)(ii).
(c) Other Proof. A party may prove an official
record—or an entry or lack of an entry in it—
by any other method authorized by law.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 44.1 is identical to FRCP 44.1.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 44.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

## RCFC 45
Subpoena

(a) In General.
(1) Form (See Appendix of Forms, Forms
6A, 6B, 6C, and 7A) and Contents.
(A) Requirements—In General. Every
subpoena must:
(i) state the court from which it
issued;
(ii) state the title of the action and its
civil-action number;
(iii) command each person to whom
it is directed to do the following
at a specified time and place:
attend and testify; produce
designated
documents,
stored
electronically
information, or tangible things in
that
person’s
possession,
custody, or control; or permit the
inspection of premises; and
(iv) set out the text of RCFC 45(d)
and (e).
(B) Command to Attend a Deposition—
Notice of the Recording Method. A
subpoena commanding attendance at
a deposition must state the method
for recording the testimony.
(C) Combining or Separating a
Command to Produce or to Permit
Inspection; Specifying the Form for
Electronically Stored Information.
A command to produce documents,
electronically stored information, or
tangible things or to permit the
inspection of premises may be
included in a subpoena commanding
attendance at a deposition, hearing,
or trial, or may be set out in a
separate subpoena. A subpoena may

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 44 is identical to FRCP 44.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 44 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 44.1
Determining Foreign Law

A party who intends to raise an issue about a
foreign country’s law must give notice by a
pleading or other writing. In determining foreign
law, the court may consider any relevant material
or source, including testimony, whether or not
submitted by a party or admissible under the
Federal Rules of Evidence. The court’s
determination must be treated as a ruling on a
question of law.

67

RCFC 44.1 and 45

(4) Proof of Service. Proving service, when
necessary, requires filing with the court a
statement showing the date and manner
of service and the names of the persons
served. The statement must be certified
by the server.
(c) Place of Compliance.
(1) For a Trial, Hearing, or Deposition. A
subpoena may command a person to
attend a trial, hearing, or deposition only
as follows:
(A) within 100 miles of where a person
resides, is employed, or regularly
transacts business in person; or
(B) at any place within the United States
if the person:
(i) is a party or a party’s officer; or
(ii) is commanded to attend a trial
and would not incur substantial
expense.
(2) For Other Discovery. A subpoena may
command:
(A) production
of
documents,
electronically stored information, or
tangible things at a place within 100
miles of where the person resides, is
employed, or regularly transacts
business in person; and
(B) inspection of premises at the
premises to be inspected.
(d) Protecting a Person Subject to a
Subpoena; Enforcement.
(1) Avoiding Undue Burden or Expense;
Sanctions. A party or attorney
responsible for issuing and serving a
subpoena must take reasonable steps to
avoid imposing undue burden or expense
on a person subject to the subpoena. The
court must enforce this duty and impose
an appropriate sanction—which may
include lost earnings and reasonable
attorney’s fees—on a party or attorney
who fails to comply.
(2) Command to Produce Materials or
Permit Inspection.
(A) Appearance Not Required. A person
commanded to produce documents,
electronically stored information, or
tangible things, or to permit the
inspection of premises, need not
appear in person at the place of

specify the form or forms in which
electronically stored information is
to be produced.
(D) Command to Produce; Included
Obligations. A command in a
subpoena to produce documents,
electronically stored information, or
tangible
things
requires
the
responding person to permit
inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling of the materials.
(2) Issuing Court. A subpoena must issue
from the court where the action is
pending.
(3) Issued by Whom. The clerk must issue a
subpoena, signed but otherwise in blank,
to a party who requests it. That party
must complete it before service. An
attorney also may issue and sign a
subpoena if the attorney is authorized to
practice in the issuing court.
(4) Notice to Other Parties Before Service.
If the subpoena commands the
production of documents, electronically
stored information, or tangible things or
the inspection of premises before trial,
then before it is served on the person to
whom it is directed, a notice and a copy
of the subpoena must be served on each
party.
(b) Service.
(1) By Whom and How; Tendering Fees.
Any person who is at least 18 years old
and not a party may serve a subpoena.
Serving a subpoena requires delivering a
copy to the named person and, if the
subpoena requires that person’s
attendance, tendering the fees for 1 day’s
attendance and the mileage allowed by
law. Fees and mileage need not be
tendered when the subpoena issues on
behalf of the United States or any of its
officers or agencies.
(2) Service in the United States. A subpoena
may be served at any place within the
United States.
(3) Service in a Foreign Country. 28 U.S.C.
§ 1783 governs issuing and serving a
subpoena directed to a United States
national or resident who is in a foreign
country.
RCFC 45 cont.

68

development, or commercial
information; or
(ii) disclosing an unretained expert’s
opinion or information that does
not describe specific occurrences
in dispute and results from the
expert’s study that was not
requested by a party.
(C) Specifying Conditions as an
Alternative. In the circumstances
described in RCFC 45(d)(3)(B), the
court may, instead of quashing or
modifying a subpoena, order
appearance or production under
specified conditions if the serving
party:
(i) shows a substantial need for the
testimony or material that cannot
be otherwise met without undue
hardship; and
(ii) ensures that the subpoenaed
person will be reasonably
compensated.
(e) Duties in Responding to a Subpoena.
(1) Producing Documents or Electronically
Stored Information. These procedures
apply to producing documents or
electronically stored information:
(A) Documents. A person responding to
a subpoena to produce documents
must produce them as they are kept
in the ordinary course of business or
must organize and label them to
correspond to the categories in the
demand.
(B) Form for Producing Electronically
Stored Information Not Specified. If
a subpoena does not specify a form
for producing electronically stored
information, the person responding
must produce it in a form or forms in
which it is ordinarily maintained or
in a reasonably usable form or forms.
(C) Electronically Stored Information
Produced in Only One Form. The
person responding need not produce
the same electronically stored
information in more than one form.
(D) Inaccessible Electronically Stored
Information. The person responding
need not provide discovery of

production or inspection unless also
commanded to appear for a
deposition, hearing, or trial.
(B) Objections. A person commanded to
produce documents or tangible
things or to permit inspection may
serve on the party or attorney
designated in the subpoena a written
objection to inspecting, copying,
testing or sampling any or all of the
materials or to inspecting the
premises—or
to
producing
electronically stored information in
the form or forms requested. The
objection must be served before the
earlier of the time specified for
compliance or 14 days after the
subpoena is served. If an objection is
made, the following rules apply:
(i) At any time, on notice to the
commanded person, the serving
party may move the court for an
order compelling production or
inspection.
(ii) These acts may be required only
as directed in the order, and the
order must protect a person who
is neither a party nor a party’s
officer from significant expense
resulting from compliance.
(3) Quashing or Modifying a Subpoena.
(A) When Required. On timely motion,
the court must quash or modify a
subpoena that:
(i) fails to allow a reasonable time
to comply;
(ii) requires a person who is neither
a party nor a party’s officer to
comply beyond the limitations
specified in RCFC 45(c);
(iii) requires disclosure of privileged
or other protected matter, if no
exception of waiver applies; or
(iv) subjects a person to undue
burden.
(B) When Permitted. To protect a person
subject to or affected by a subpoena,
the court may, on motion, quash or
modify the subpoena if it requires:
(i) disclosing a trade secret or other
confidential
research,
69

RCFC 45 cont.

information must preserve the
information until the claim is
resolved.
(f) Transferring a Subpoena-Related Motion.
[Not used.]
(g) Contempt. The court may hold in contempt
a person who, having been served, fails
without adequate excuse to obey the
subpoena or an order related to it.

electronically stored information
from sources that the person
identifies
as
not
reasonably
accessible because of undue burden
or cost. On motion to compel
discovery or for a protective order,
the person responding must show
that the information is not reasonably
accessible because of undue burden
or cost. If that showing is made, the
court may nonetheless order
discovery from such sources if the
requesting party shows good cause,
considering the limitations of RCFC
26(b)(2)(C). The court may specify
conditions for the discovery.
(2) Claiming Privilege or Protection.
(A) Information Withheld. A person
withholding subpoenaed information
under a claim that it is privileged or
subject to protection as trialpreparation material must:
(i) expressly make the claim; and
(ii) describe the nature of the
withheld
documents,
communications, or tangible
things in a manner that, without
revealing information itself
privileged or protected, will
enable the parties to assess the
claim.
(B) I n f o r m a t i o n P r o d u c e d. If
information produced in response to
a subpoena is subject to a claim of
privilege or of protection as trialpreparation material, the person
making the claim may notify any
party that received the information of
the claim and the basis for it. After
being notified, a party must promptly
return, sequester, or destroy the
specified information and any copies
it has; must not use or disclose the
information until the claim is
resolved; must take reasonable steps
to retrieve the information if the
party disclosed it before being
notified; and may promptly present
the information under seal to the
court for a determination of the
claim. The person who produced the
RCFC 46

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, July 1,
2014.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 45 conforms to FRCP 45 to the extent
feasible given the court’s nationwide jurisdiction.
2007 Amendment
RCFC 45 has been amended to reflect the
corresponding changes to FRCP 45 that became
effective December 1, 2006.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 45 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2014 Amendment
RCFC 45 has been amended to reflect the
corresponding changes in wording and
organizational structure to FRCP 45 that became
effective December 1, 2013. The changes to
RCFC 45 are not substantive; they do not alter the
practice and procedure authorized under the
court’s rule.

## RCFC 46
Objecting to a Ruling or Order

A formal exception to a ruling or order is
unnecessary. When the ruling or order is
requested or made, a party need only state the
action that it wants the court to take or objects to,
along with the grounds for the request or
objection. Failing to object does not prejudice a
party who had no opportunity to do so when the
ruling or order was made.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

70

(5) Questioning the Evidentiary Support. A
party may later question the sufficiency
of the evidence supporting the findings,
whether or not the party requested
findings, objected to them, moved to
amend them, or moved for partial
findings.
(6) Setting Aside the Findings. Findings of
fact, whether based on oral or other
evidence, must not be set aside unless
clearly erroneous, and the reviewing
court must give due regard to the trial
court’s opportunity to judge the
witnesses’ credibility.
(b) Amended or Additional Findings. On a
party’s motion filed no later than 30 days
after the entry of judgment, the court may
amend its findings—or make additional
findings—and may amend the judgment
accordingly. The motion may accompany a
motion for a new trial under RCFC 59.
(c) Judgment on Partial Findings. If a party
has been fully heard on an issue during trial
and the court finds against the party on that
issue, the court may enter judgment against
the party on a claim or defense that, under the
controlling law, can be maintained or
defeated only with a favorable finding on that
issue. The court may, however, decline to
render any judgment until the close of the
evidence. A judgment on partial findings
must be supported by findings of fact and
conclusions of law as required by RCFC
52(a).

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 46 is identical to FRCP 46.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 46 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 47
Selecting Jurors [Not used.]



## RCFC 48
Number of Jurors; Verdict [Not

used.]

## RCFC 49
Special Verdict; General Verdict

and Questions [Not used.]

## RCFC 50
Judgment as a Matter of Law in a

Jury Trial; Related Motion for a
New Trial; Conditional Ruling [Not
used.]

## RCFC 51
Instructions to the Jury;

Objections; Preserving a Claim of
Error [Not used.]

## RCFC 52
Findings and Conclusions by the

Court; Judgment on Partial
Findings
(a) Findings and Conclusions.
(1) In General. In an action tried on the
facts, the court must find the facts
specially and state its conclusions of law
separately. The findings and conclusions
may be stated on the record after the
close of the evidence or may appear in an
opinion or a memorandum of decision
filed by the court. Judgment must be
entered under RCFC 58.
(2) For an Interlocutory Injunction. In
granting or refusing an interlocutory
injunction, the court must similarly state
the findings and conclusions that support
its action.
(3) For a Motion. The court is not required
to state findings or conclusions when
ruling on a motion under RCFC 12 or 56
or, unless these rules provide otherwise,
on any other motion.
(4) Effect of a Master’s Findings. [Not
used.]

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The principal change in RCFC 52 relates to
the enlargement of subdivision (c) to include,
among issues subject to judgment on partial
findings, the adjudication of issues critical to the
legal sufficiency of a “defense.” The amendment
makes clear that judgments as a matter of law
may be entered against both plaintiffs and
defendants and with respect to issues or defenses
that may not be wholly dispositive of a claim or
defense.

71

RCFC 47, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52

Rules Committee Notes
2006 Adoption
RCFC 52.1 has no FRCP counterpart. The
rule replaces an earlier rule, RCFC 56.1, that
applied certain standards borrowed from the
procedure for summary judgment to review of an
agency decision on the basis of an administrative
record. That incorporation proved to be confusing
in practice because only a portion of the summary
judgment standards were borrowed. Summary
judgment standards are not pertinent to judicial
review upon an administrative record. See
Bannum, Inc. v. United States, 404 F.3d 1346,
1355–57 (Fed. Cir. 2005). Specifically, the nowrepealed Rule 56.1 did not adopt the overall
standard that summary judgment might be
appropriate where there were no genuine issues
of material fact. See RCFC 56(c). Nonetheless,
despite this omission, parties, in moving for
judgment on the administrative record under the
prior rule, frequently would contest whether the
administrative record showed the existence of a
genuine dispute of material fact. To avoid this
confusion, the new rule omits any reference to
summary judgment or to the standards applicable
to summary judgment.
Cases filed in this court frequently turn only
in part on action taken by an administrative
agency. In such cases, the administrative record
may provide a factual and procedural predicate
for a portion of the court’s decision, while other
elements might be derived from a trial, an
evidentiary hearing, or summary judgment or
other judicial proceedings. This rule applies
whether the court’s decision is derived in whole
or in part from the agency action reflected in the
administrative record.
The standards and criteria governing the
court’s review of agency decisions vary
depending upon the specific law to be applied in
particular cases. The rule does not address those
standards or criteria. Correspondingly, any
motion for correction or supplementation of the
administrative record should be made on the basis
of either the specific law to be applied in the
particular case or generally applicable principles
of administrative law.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 52 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
RCFC 52(b) has been amended to change the
period for filing a post-judgment motion from 10
to 30 days in accordance with the corresponding
change to FRCP 52(b) that became effective
December 1, 2009. RCFC 6(b) continues to
prohibit any extension of the time allowed under
this rule.

## RCFC 52.1
Administrative Record

(a) In General. When proceedings before an
agency are relevant to a decision in a case, the
administrative record of those proceedings
must be certified by the agency and filed with
the court. Appendices to these rules govern
the filing of the administrative record in
particular categories of cases.
(b) Time for Filing. The court may establish a
time for filing the administrative record by
order.
(c) Motions
for
Judgment
on
the
Administrative Record.
(1) Initial Motion. Absent an order by the
court establishing a different procedure,
a party may move for partial or other
judgment on the administrative record
and must include in its motion or
supporting memorandum a statement of
facts that draws upon and cites to the
portions of the administrative record that
bear on the issues presented to the court.
(2) Response. A party opposing a motion
based on the administrative record must
include in any response a counterstatement of facts that similarly draws
upon and cites to the administrative
record.
(3) Effect of a Motion. Unless otherwise
provided by order of the court, a motion
under this rule for judgment on the
administrative record obviates the
requirement for the filing of an answer
under RCFC 12(a)(1).
(Added June 20, 2006; as amended Nov. 3, 2008,
July 2, 2012, July 29, 2024.)

RCFC 52.1

72

(2) termination of the stay and the initiation
of other proceedings under RCFC 7 to
dispose of the case.
(d) Completing Administrative Proceedings.
When the action directed under a remand
order is completed, the administrative or
executive body or official to whom the order
was directed must forward to the clerk for
filing a copy of the final decision or other
action taken. The clerk must serve each party
with a copy of the final decision or other
action. If the case is resolved at the
administrative level, the plaintiff must file a
motion to dismiss the case with prejudice.
(e) Post-Remand Proceedings.
(1) Notice. Within 30 days after the filing of
the final decision or other action on
remand, each party must file with the
clerk and serve on each adverse party a
notice stating:
(A) whether the final decision or other
action on remand affords a
satisfactory basis for disposition of
the case; or
(B) whether further proceedings before
the court are required and, if so, the
nature of such proceedings.
(2) Issuing an Order. After service of the
notice, the court will enter an order
prescribing the procedure to be followed
or directing any other action deemed
appropriate.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 52.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.
2012 Amendment
RCFC 52.1(c) has been amended to clarify
that absent a court order directing otherwise, the
filing of a motion for judgment on the
administrative record obviates the requirement
for the filing of an answer to the complaint.
2024 Amendment
RCFC 52.1(a) has been amended to clarify
that in certain types of cases, the filing of the
administrative record is governed by the
appendices to these rules.

## RCFC 52.2
Remanding a Case

(a) In General. In any case within its
jurisdiction, the court, on motion or on its
own, may order the remand of appropriate
matters to an administrative or executive
body or official.
(b) Remand Order.
(1) Contents. An order remanding a case
must:
(A) include such direction as the court
deems proper and just;
(B) establish the duration of the remand
period, not to exceed 6 months;
(C) specify the extent to which court
proceedings will be stayed during the
remand period; and
(D) designate a party to report to the
court, every 90 days or less, on the
status of the remand proceedings.
(2) Service. A certified copy of the remand
order must be served by the clerk in
accordance with RCFC 5 on the
administrative or executive body or
official to whom the order is directed.
(c) Extending or Terminating the Stay of
Proceedings. If the administrative or
executive body or official to whom the
remand order is directed does not act on the
remand within the period of stay specified in
the remand order, a party may move for:
(1) an extension of the stay under RCFC 6;
or

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
renumbered June 20, 2006; as amended Nov. 3,
2008, Aug. 3, 2015, Aug. 1, 2017, July 2, 2018,
July 31, 2023.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision and 2006 Amendment
RCFC 52.2 has no FRCP counterpart. The
rule formerly appeared in these rules as RCFC
60.1 and, following the court’s May 1, 2002,
revision of its rules, as RCFC 56.2. The first
renumbering of the rule (from RCFC 60.1 to
RCFC 56.2) was intended to reflect a more
logical placement in the organizational structure
of the court’s rules; the second renumbering
(from RCFC 56.2 to RCFC 52.2) was attributable
to a further change in the organizational structure
of the court’s rules as reflected in the abrogation
73

RCFC 52.2

(2) Disqualification. A master must not have
a relationship to the parties, attorneys,
action, or assigned judge that would
require disqualification of a judge under
28 U.S.C. § 455, unless the parties, with
the assigned judge’s approval, consent to
the appointment after the master
discloses any potential grounds for
disqualification.
(3) Possible Expense or Delay. In requesting
the appointment of a master, the assigned
judge must consider the fairness of
imposing the likely expenses on the
parties and must protect against
unreasonable expense or delay.
(b) Order Appointing a Master.
(1) Notice.
Before
requesting
the
appointment of a master, the assigned
judge must give the parties notice and an
opportunity to be heard. Any party may
suggest to the assigned judge candidates
for appointment.
(2) Contents. The appointing order must
direct the master to proceed with all
reasonable diligence and must state:
(A) the master’s duties, including any
investigation or enforcement duties,
and any limits on the master’s
authority under RCFC 53(c);
(B) the circumstances, if any, in which
the master may communicate ex
parte with the assigned judge or a
party;
(C) the nature of the materials to be
preserved and filed as the record of
the master’s activities;
(D) the time limits, method of filing the
record, other procedures, and
standards for reviewing the master’s
orders,
findings,
and
recommendations; and
(E) the basis, terms, and procedure for
fixing the master’s compensation
under RCFC 53(g).
(3) Issuing. The assigned judge may request
an order appointing a master only after:
(A) the master files an affidavit
disclosing whether there is any
ground for disqualification under 28
U.S.C. § 455; and

of related RCFC 56.1 and its replacement by new
RCFC 52.1.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 52.2 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.
2015 Amendment
RCFC 52.2(e) has been amended to reduce
the required number of copies to be filed of the
final decision or other action taken upon
completion of the administrative proceedings
ordered pursuant to a remand.
2017 Amendment
RCFC 52.2(b)(2) has been amended to delete
the requirement calling for a certified copy of the
remand order to be served on each party.
2018 Amendment
Former 52.2(c), requiring the return of the
administrative record to the administrative or
executive body or official to whom the remand
order is directed, has been deleted as no longer
necessary.
2023 Amendment
RCFC 52.2(d) has been amended to eliminate
the 2-copy requirement for the filing of the
agency’s final decision or other action taken.

## RCFC 53
Masters

(a) Appointment.
(1) Scope. Unless a statute provides
otherwise, the chief judge, at the request
of the assigned judge, may appoint a
master only to:
(A) perform duties consented to by the
parties;
(B) hold trial proceedings and make or
recommend findings of fact if
appointment is warranted by:
(i) some exceptional condition; or
(ii) the need to perform an
accounting or resolve a difficult
computation of damages; or
(C) address pretrial and post-trial matters
that cannot be effectively and timely
addressed by the assigned judge.

RCFC 53

74

(B) if a ground is disclosed, the parties,
with the assigned judge’s approval,
waive the disqualification.
(4) Amending. The order appointing a
master may be amended by the chief
judge at any time upon recommendation
of the assigned judge after the assigned
judge has given the parties notice and an
opportunity to be heard.

recommendations no later than 21 days
after a copy is served, unless the assigned
judge sets a different time.
(3) Reviewing Factual Findings. The
assigned judge must decide de novo all
objections to findings of fact made or
recommended by a master, unless the
parties, with the assigned judge’s
approval, stipulate that:
(A) the findings will be reviewed for
clear error; or
(B) the findings of a master appointed
under RCFC 53(a)(1)(A) or (C) will
be final.
(4) Reviewing Legal Conclusions. The
assigned judge must decide de novo all
objections to conclusions of law made or
recommended by a master.
(5) Reviewing Procedural Matters. Unless
the appointing order establishes a
different standard of review, the assigned
judge may set aside a master’s ruling on
a procedural matter only for an abuse of
discretion.
(g) Compensation.
(1) Fixing Compensation. Before or after
judgment, the assigned judge must fix the
master’s compensation on the basis and
terms stated in the appointing order, but
a new basis and terms may be set by the
chief judge upon recommendation of the
assigned judge after the assigned judge
has given the parties notice and an
opportunity to be heard.
(2) Payment. The compensation must be
paid either:
(A) by a party or parties; or
(B) from a fund or subject matter of the
action within the assigned judge’s
control.
(3) Allocating Payment. The assigned judge
must allocate payment among the parties
after considering the nature and amount
of the controversy, the parties’ means,
and the extent to which any party is more
responsible than other parties for the
reference to a master. An interim
allocation may be amended to reflect a
decision on the merits.
(h) Appointing a Magistrate Judge. [Not used.]

(c) Master’s Authority.
(1) In General. Unless the appointing order
directs otherwise, a master may:
(A) regulate all proceedings;
(B) take all appropriate measures to
perform the assigned duties fairly
and efficiently; and
(C) if conducting an evidentiary hearing,
exercise the assigned judge’s power
to compel, take, and record evidence.
(2) Sanctions. The master may by order
impose on a party any noncontempt
sanction provided by RCFC 37 or 45, and
may recommend a contempt sanction
against a party and sanctions against a
nonparty.
(d) Master’s Orders. A master who issues an
order must file it and promptly serve a copy
on each party. The clerk must enter the order
on the docket.
(e) Master’s Reports. A master must report to
the assigned judge as required by the
appointing order. The master must file the
report and promptly serve a copy on each
party, unless the assigned judge orders
otherwise.
(f) Action on the Master’s Order, Report, or
Recommendations.
(1) Opportunity for a Hearing; Action in
General. In acting on a master’s order,
report, or recommendations, the assigned
judge must give the parties notice and an
opportunity to be heard; may receive
evidence; and may adopt or affirm,
modify, wholly or partly reject or
reverse, or resubmit to the master with
instructions.
(2) Time to Object or Move to Adopt or
Modify. A party may file objections to—
or a motion to adopt or modify—the
master’s
order,
report,
or
75

RCFC 53 cont.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended July 1, 2004, Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11,
2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The text of RCFC 53 as revised on May 1,
2002, and its accompanying Rules Committee
Note, may be found at 51 Fed. Cl. LXXXV
(2002) or in Westlaw, database USCA03, search
CI(RCFC & 53).
2004 Amendment
RCFC 53 adopts the significantly revised text
of FRCP 53, effective December 1, 2003, with
minor adjustments in language reflecting
differences in jurisdiction between this court and
the district courts. The principal adjustments in
language occur in the introductory text of
subdivision (a) which adds the words “the chief
judge, at the request of the assigned judge” as an
additional qualification to the appointment of a
master and in the related text of subdivisions
(b)(4) and (h)(1). The distinction between the
roles of chief judge and assigned judge is carried
through into the subdivisions of the rule where
the words “assigned judge” are substituted for the
word “court.” The added language addresses the
fact that pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 798(c), the
court’s authority to appoint special masters to
assist the court in carrying out its functions rests
exclusively with the chief judge.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 53 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
This rule does not apply to special masters
appointed by the court to resolve Vaccine Act
cases covered in Appendix B to these rules.
2010 Amendment
The time period of 20 days formerly set forth
in RCFC 53(f)(2) has been changed to 21 days in
accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 53(f)(2) that became effective December
1, 2009.

RCFC 53 cont.

76

TITLE VII.

JUDGMENT

the grounds and authorities
supporting all costs other than
the filing fee; and
(iii) include as exhibits any vouchers,
receipts, or invoices supporting
the requested costs.
(C) Procedures Applicable to a Bill of
Costs.
(i) Objection. An objection to some
or all of the requested costs may
be filed within 28 days after
service of the Bill of Costs.
(ii) Reply. A reply to an objection
may be filed within 7 days after
service of the objection.
(iii) Action by the Clerk. Unless a
conference is scheduled by the
clerk,
the
taxation
or
disallowance of costs will be
made by the clerk on the existing
record.
(iv) Court Review. A motion for
review of the clerk’s action may
be filed with the court within 14
days after action by the clerk.
Unless
the
court
orders
otherwise, the review will be
made on the existing record.
(D) Settlement Agreement. A settlement
agreement should, by its own terms,
resolve any issue relating to costs
and in the absence of special
agreement, each party must bear its
own costs. The clerk may not tax
costs on any action terminated by
settlement.
(2) Attorney’s Fees.
(A) Claim to Be by Motion. A claim for
attorney’s
fees
and
related
nontaxable expenses must be made
by motion unless the substantive law
requires those fees to be proved at
trial as an element of damages. See
Appendix of Forms, Form 5.
(B) Timing and Contents of the Motion.
Unless a statute or a court order
provides otherwise, the motion must:
(i) be filed within 30 days after the
date of final judgment, as
defined in 28 U.S.C. §
2412(d)(2)(G);

## RCFC 54
Judgment; Costs

(a) Definition; Form. “Judgment” as used in
these rules includes a decree and any order
from which an appeal lies. A judgment
should not include recitals of pleadings, a
master’s report, or a record of prior
proceedings.
(b) Judgment on Multiple Claims or Involving
Multiple Parties. When an action presents
more than one claim for relief—whether as a
claim, counterclaim, or third-party claim—or
when multiple parties are involved, the court
may direct entry of a final judgment as to one
or more, but fewer than all, claims or parties
only if the court expressly determines that
there is no just reason for delay. Otherwise,
any order or other decision, however
designated, that adjudicates fewer than all the
claims or the rights and liabilities of fewer
than all the parties does not end the action as
to any of the claims or parties and may be
revised at any time before the entry of a
judgment adjudicating all the claims and all
the parties’ rights and liabilities.
(c) Demand for Judgment; Relief to Be
Granted. A default judgment must not differ
in kind from, or exceed in amount, what is
demanded in the pleadings. Every other final
judgment should grant the relief to which
each party is entitled, even if the party has not
demanded that relief in its pleadings.
(d) Costs; Attorney’s Fees.
(1) Costs Other Than Attorney’s Fees.
Costs—other than attorney’s fees—
should be allowed to the prevailing party
to the extent permitted by law. See 28
U.S.C. § 2412(a).
(A) Filing a Bill of Costs. A claim for
allowable costs must be made by
filing a Bill of Costs with the clerk.
See Appendix of Forms, Form 4.
(B) Timing and Contents of a Bill of
Costs. A Bill of Costs must:
(i) be filed within 30 days after the
date of final judgment, as
defined in 28 U.S.C. §
2412(d)(2)(G);
(ii) be accompanied by an affidavit
and a memorandum setting forth
77

RCFC 54

(ii) specify the judgment and the
statute, rule, or other grounds
entitling the movant to the
award;
(iii) state the amount sought; and
(iv) disclose, if the court so orders,
the terms of any agreement about
fees for the services for which
the claim is made.
(C) Proceedings. The court may decide
issues of liability for fees before
receiving submissions on the value
of services. The court must find the
facts and state its conclusions of law
as provided in RCFC 52(a).
(D) Procedures Applicable to a Motion
for Attorney’s Fees.
(i) Response. A response to a
motion for attorney’s fees may
be filed within 28 days after
service of the motion.
(ii) Reply. A reply to a response may
be filed within 14 days after
service of the response.
(iii) Subsequent Procedures. After
the filing of a response and a
reply to a motion for attorney’s
fees, the court will enter an order
prescribing the procedures to be
followed.
(E) Exceptions. Subparagraphs (A)–(D)
do not apply to claims for fees and
expenses as sanctions for violating
these rules or as sanctions under 28
U.S.C. § 1927.

was deemed advisable to reflect this fact in
subdivision (d)(2) rather than to retain the
broader, but potentially misleading, language that
appears in FRCP 54(d)(1). See Neal & Co. v.
United States, 121 F.3d 683 (Fed. Cir. 1997).
Second, subdivision (d)(1) was enlarged
beyond the scope of its FRCP counterpart by the
incorporation of RCFC 77.4 (“Taxation of
Costs”). Third, subdivision (d)(2) brings together
relevant sections of its FRCP counterpart and
former RCFC 81(e) (“Application for Attorneys’
Fees”).
Finally, the time periods for objecting to a
Bill of Costs and for requesting review of the
clerk’s action were enlarged.
2004 Amendment
The final sentence of RCFC 54(d)(2)(D) was
deleted in conformance with RCFC 53(a)(1).
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 54 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
RCFC 54(d) has been amended by deleting
item (1)(C)(v) (“Time Extensions”) in its
entirety. In addition, the 14-day time period
formerly set forth in item (2)(D)(i) for filing a
response to a motion for attorney’s fees has been
restored to 28 days.

## RCFC 55
Default; Default Judgment

(a) Entering a Default. When a party against
whom a judgment for affirmative relief is
sought has failed to plead or otherwise
defend, and that failure is shown by affidavit
or otherwise, the clerk must enter the party’s
default.
(b) Entering a Default Judgment.
(1) By the Clerk. [Not used.]
(2) By the Court. The party must apply to the
court for a default judgment. A default
judgment may be entered only if the
claimant establishes a claim or right to
relief by evidence that satisfies the court.
A default judgment may be entered
against a minor or incompetent person
only if represented by a general guardian,
conservator, or other like fiduciary who
has appeared. If the party against whom

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended July 1, 2004, Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11,
2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 54(d) was revised in several respects.
The subdivision was modified to conform its
structure to FRCP 54(d). In addition, the
subdivision, as rewritten departs from its FRCP
counterpart in several respects:
First, because the allowance of attorneys’
fees and costs in this court is almost always
determined under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. §
2412(a), (d) (the Equal Access to Justice Act), it
RCFC 55

78

accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 55(b)(2) that became effective December
1, 2009.

a default judgment is sought has
personally
or
by
a
appeared
representative, that party or its
representative must be served with
written notice of the application at least 7
days before the hearing. The court may
conduct hearings or make referrals when,
to enter or effectuate judgment, it needs
to:
(A) conduct an accounting;
(B) determine the amount of damages;
(C) establish the truth of any allegation
by evidence; or
(D) investigate any other matter.
(c) Setting Aside a Default or a Default
Judgment. The court may set aside an entry
of default for good cause, and it may set aside
a final default judgment under RCFC 60(b).
(d) Judgment Against the United States. [Not
used.]

2016 Amendment
RCFC 55 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding change to FRCP 55 that
became effective December 1, 2015.

## RCFC 56
Summary Judgment

(a) Motion for Summary Judgment or Partial
Summary Judgment. A party may move for
summary judgment, identifying each claim or
defense—or the part of each claim or
defense—on which summary judgment is
sought. The court shall grant summary
judgment if the movant shows that there is no
genuine dispute as to any material fact and
the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law. The court should state on the record
the reasons for granting or denying the
motion.
(b) Time to File a Motion. Unless the court
orders otherwise, a party may file a motion
for summary judgment at any time until 30
days after the close of all discovery.
(c) Procedures.
(1) Supporting Factual Positions. A party
asserting that a fact cannot be or is
genuinely disputed must support the
assertion by:
(A) citing to particular parts of materials
in the record, including depositions,
documents, electronically stored
information,
affidavits
or
declarations, stipulations (including
those made for purposes of the
motion
only),
admissions,
interrogatory answers, or other
materials; or
(B) showing that the materials cited do
not establish the absence or presence
of a genuine dispute, or that an
adverse party cannot produce
admissible evidence to support the
fact.
(2) Objection That a Fact Is Not Supported
by Admissible Evidence. A party may
object that the material cited to support or
dispute a fact cannot be presented in a

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010, Aug. 1,
2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 55 recognizes the distinction between
entry of default and entry of judgment for default.
Substantial changes were made. The language in
former subdivision (b)(1), permitting entry of
default judgment by the clerk, is omitted.
Additionally, the protection previously afforded
only to the United States—prohibiting entry of
default judgments absent a showing by the
claimant of a right to relief by evidence
satisfactory to the court—is expanded to include
all parties. Judgment requires proof and
involvement of the court.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 55 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
In addition, in further conformance with
FRCP 55, former subdivision (d) (“Plaintiffs;
Counterclaimants”) has been omitted as
incomplete and unnecessary.
2010 Amendment
The time period of 3 days formerly set forth
in RCFC 55(b)(2) has been changed to 7 days in
79

RCFC 56

of damages or other relief—that is not
genuinely in dispute and treating the fact as
established in the case.
(h) Affidavit or Declaration Submitted in Bad
Faith. If satisfied that an affidavit or
declaration under this rule is submitted in bad
faith or solely for delay, the court—after
notice and a reasonable time to respond—
may order the submitting party to pay the
other party the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, it incurred as a
result. An offending party or attorney may
also be held in contempt or subjected to other
appropriate sanctions.

form that would be admissible in
evidence.
(3) Materials Not Cited. The court need
consider only the cited materials, but it
may consider other materials in the
record.
(4) Affidavits or Declarations. An affidavit
or declaration used to support or oppose
a motion must be made on personal
knowledge, set out facts that would be
admissible in evidence, and show that the
affiant or declarant is competent to testify
on the matters stated.
(d) When Facts Are Unavailable to the
Nonmovant. If a nonmovant shows by
affidavit or declaration that, for specified
reasons, it cannot present facts essential to
justify its opposition, the court may:
(1) defer considering the motion or deny it;
(2) allow time to obtain affidavits or
declarations or to take discovery; or
(3) issue any other appropriate order.
(e) Failing to Properly Support or Address a
Fact. If a party fails to properly support an
assertion of fact or fails to properly address
another party’s assertion of fact as required
by RCFC 56(c), the court may:
(1) give an opportunity to properly support
or address the fact;
(2) consider the fact undisputed for purposes
of the motion;
(3) grant summary judgment if the motion
and supporting materials—including the
facts considered undisputed—show that
the movant is entitled to it; or
(4) issue any other appropriate order.
(f) Judgment Independent of the Motion.
After giving notice and a reasonable time to
respond, the court may:
(1) grant summary judgment for a
nonmovant;
(2) grant the motion on grounds not raised by
a party; or
(3) consider summary judgment on its own
after identifying for the parties material
facts that may not be genuinely in
dispute.
(g) Failing to Grant All the Requested Relief.
If the court does not grant all the relief
requested by the motion, it may enter an order
stating any material fact—including an item
RCFC 56.1

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended June 20, 2006, Nov. 3, 2008, July 15,
2011.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The subdivision structure of RCFC 56 was
re-ordered to more closely conform to FRCP 56.
In addition, the subdivision outlining the
procedures for filing a RCFC 56 motion was
changed to eliminate the Statement of Genuine
Issues and to require the parties to express their
views on any particular fact by noting them on a
single page, which may include a redraft of the
challenged finding.
2006 Amendment
A clause was deleted from the opening
portion of subdivision (h) to accord with the
abrogation of RCFC 56.1.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 56 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2011 Amendment
RCFC 56 has been rewritten in its entirety to
reflect the corresponding revision of FRCP 56
that became effective December 1, 2010.

## RCFC 56.1
Review of a Decision on the Basis of

the A d m i n i s t r a t i v e Record
[Abrogated (eff. June 20, 2006).]

80

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 56.1 has no FRCP counterpart. In the
interests of procedural clarity, the text of
subdivision (a) was modified to reflect current
practice with respect to supplementation of the
administrative record, and subdivision (b)(2) was
modified to make explicit an opposing party’s
right to file an opposition as well as a crossmotion. In addition, the rule was conformed to
RCFC 56 practice, in that the statement of facts
and counter-statement of facts are incorporated
into a single document. In all other respects,
RCFC 56.1 remains unchanged.

is not required for an order disposing of a
motion:
(1) [not used];
(2) to amend or make additional findings
under RCFC 52(b);
(3) for attorney’s fees under RCFC 54;
(4) for a new trial, or to alter or amend the
judgment, under RCFC 59; or
(5) for relief under RCFC 60.
(b) Entering Judgment.
(1) Without the Court’s Direction. Subject
to RCFC 54(b) and unless the court
orders otherwise, the clerk must, without
awaiting the court’s direction, promptly
prepare, sign, and enter the judgment
when:
(A) [not used];
(B) the court awards only costs or a sum
certain; or
(C) the court denies all relief.
(2) Court’s Approval Required. Subject to
RCFC 54(b), the court must promptly
approve the form of the judgment, which
the clerk must promptly enter, when:
(A) [not used]; or
(B) the court grants other relief not
described in this subdivision (b).
(c) Time of Entry. For purposes of these rules,
judgment is entered at the following times:
(1) if a separate document is not required,
when the judgment is entered in the civil
docket under RCFC 79(a); or
(2) if a separate document is required, when
the judgment is entered in the civil docket
under RCFC 79(a) and the earlier of these
events occurs:
(A) it is set out in a separate document;
or
(B) 150 days have run from the entry in
the civil docket.
(d) Request for Entry. A party may request that
judgment be set out in a separate document as
required by RCFC 58(a).
(e) Cost or Fee Awards. Ordinarily, the entry of
judgment may not be delayed, nor the time
for appeal extended, in order to tax costs or
award fees. But if a timely motion for
attorney’s fees is made under RCFC 54(d)(2),
the court may act before a notice of appeal
has been filed and become effective to order
that the motion have the same effect under

2006 Abrogation
RCFC 56.1 has been abrogated for the
reasons described in the Rules Committee Note
to RCFC 52.1.

## RCFC 56.2
Remanding a Case [Renumbered as

RCFC 52.2 (eff. June 20, 2006).]

## RCFC 57
Declaratory Judgment

These rules govern the procedure for obtaining a
declaratory judgment under 28 U.S.C. §§
1491(b)(2) and 1507. The existence of another
adequate remedy does not preclude a declaratory
judgment that is otherwise appropriate. The court
may order a speedy hearing of a declaratoryjudgment action.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The former reference to 28 U.S.C. § 1491(a)
has been changed to reflect that the court’s
authority to render declaratory judgments in the
context of procurement protests is now found in
28 U.S.C. § 1491(b)(2).
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 57 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 58
Entering Judgment

(a) Separate Document. Every judgment and
amended judgment must be set out in a
separate document, but a separate document
81

RCFC 56.2, 57 and 58

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 58.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(a)(4)
as a timely motion under RCFC 59.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Sept. 15, 2003, Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3,
2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 58 is essentially identical to the text
that was proposed in August 2000 by the
Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure of
the Judicial Conference of the United States, with
the exception of any references to trial by jury.

2012 Amendment
RCFC 58.1(a) has been amended to eliminate
the requirement for the filing of a paper copy of a
notice of appeal in an electronic case and to
reduce the number of paper copies required in a
non-electronic case from four to two.
In addition, RCFC 58.1(b) has been corrected
to reflect that the fee for an appeal is prescribed
by 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913 and 1917.

2003 Amendment
The text of RCFC 58 has been amended in
minor respects to conform to FRCP 58 as adopted
December 1, 2002.

2023 Amendment
RCFC 58.1 has been amended to eliminate
the 2-copy requirement for the filing of a notice
of appeal.

2007 Amendment
The time for the entry of judgment under
RCFC 58(b)(2)(B) has been extended from 60
days to 150 days to correspond to the time period
set forth in FRCP 58(b)(2)(B).

## RCFC 59
New Trial; Reconsideration;

Altering or Amending a Judgment
(a) In General.
(1) Grounds
for
New
Trial
or
Reconsideration. The court may, on
motion, grant a new trial or a motion for
reconsideration on all or some of the
issues—and to any party—as follows:
(A) for any reason for which a new trial
has heretofore been granted in an
action at law in federal court;
(B) for any reason for which a rehearing
has heretofore been granted in a suit
in equity in federal court; or
(C) upon the showing of satisfactory
evidence, cumulative or otherwise,
that any fraud, wrong, or injustice
has been done to the United States.
(2) Further Action After a Trial. The court
may, on motion under this rule, open the
judgment if one has been entered, take
additional testimony, amend findings of
fact and conclusions of law or make new
ones, and direct the entry of a new
judgment.
(b) Time to File a Motion for a New Trial or
for Reconsideration.
(1) A motion for a new trial or for
reconsideration under RCFC 59(a)(1)(A)
or (B) must be filed no later than 28 days
after the entry of judgment.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 58 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 58.1
Notice of Appeal

To appeal a decision of this court, a party must:
(a) file a notice of appeal with the clerk within
the time and in the manner prescribed for
appeals in Rule 3 of the Federal Rules of
Appellate Procedure; and
(b) pay the fee prescribed in 28 U.S.C. §§ 1913
and 1917.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 2, 2012, July 31,
2023.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Although the rule has no FRCP counterpart,
it is a necessary component of the court’s rules
because it prescribes the time and manner for the
filing of an appeal from a decision of this court.

RCFC 58.1 and 59

82

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 59 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

(2) A motion for a new trial or for
reconsideration under RCFC 59(a)(1)(C)
may be filed—and the payment of
judgment stayed—at any time while the
suit is pending, after review proceedings
have been initiated, or within 2 years
after the final disposition of the suit.
(c) Relying on Affidavits. When a motion for a
new trial or for reconsideration is based on
affidavits, they must be filed with the motion.
(d) New Trial on the Court’s Initiative or for
Reasons Not in the Motion. No later than 28
days after the entry of judgment, the court, on
its own, may order a new trial for any reason
that would justify granting one on a party’s
motion. After giving the parties notice and an
opportunity to be heard, the court may grant
a timely motion for a new trial for a reason
not stated in the motion. In either event, the
court must specify the reasons in its order.
(e) Motion to Alter or Amend a Judgment. A
motion to alter or amend a judgment must be
filed no later than 28 days after the entry of
the judgment.
(f) Response. A response to any motion under
this rule may be filed only at the court’s
request and within the time specified by the
court. The court may not rule in favor of a
motion under this rule without first
requesting a response to the motion.

2010 Amendment
RCFC 59 has been amended to change the
period for filing post-judgment motions from 10
to 30 days in accordance with the corresponding
changes to FRCP 59 that became effective
December 1, 2009. RCFC 6(b) continues to
prohibit extension of the time allowed under this
rule.
2011 Amendment
RCFC 59(f) has been added to clarify that the
restriction included in former paragraph (b)(3)
permitting the filing of a “response to any motion
under this rule . . . only at the court’s request”
extends to all motions under the rule, thus
applying not only to a motion for a new trial or
for reconsideration (the subject of subdivision
(b)) but also to a motion to alter or amend a
judgment (the subject of subdivision (e)).
In addition, subdivision (b) has been
amended to include reference to a motion for
reconsideration in clarification of the intended
scope of the subdivision.
Finally, the period for filing post-judgment
motions has been corrected to read 28 days in
accordance with the final version of FRCP 59 that
was adopted on December 1, 2009.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010, July 15,
2011.)

## RCFC 60
Relief From a Judgment or Order

(a) Corrections Based on Clerical Mistakes;
Oversights and Omissions. The court may
correct a clerical mistake or a mistake arising
from oversight or omission whenever one is
found in a judgment, order, or other part of
the record. The court may do so on motion or
on its own, with or without notice. But after
an appeal has been docketed in the appellate
court and while it is pending, such a mistake
may be corrected only with the appellate
court’s leave.
(b) Grounds for Relief from a Final
Judgment, Order, or Proceeding. On
motion and just terms, the court may relieve
a party or its legal representative from a final
judgment, order, or proceeding for the
following reasons:

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes in wording have been made to
more closely conform to FRCP 59. Subdivision
(c) was deleted to reflect the difference in Court
of Federal Claims practice, set out in subdivision
(b), which directs that a response to a RCFC 59
motion is required only when directed by the
court, even if the motion is accompanied by an
affidavit. Other differences were retained,
including the distinction between final and nonfinal orders, which can be the subject of motions
for reconsideration at any time before final
judgment.

83

RCFC 60

## RCFC 61
Harmless Error

Unless justice requires otherwise, no error in
admitting or excluding evidence—or any other
error by the court or a party—is ground for
granting a new trial, for setting aside a verdict, or
for vacating, modifying, or otherwise disturbing
a judgment or order. At every stage of the
proceeding, the court must disregard all errors
and defects that do not affect any party’s
substantial rights.

(1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect;
(2) newly discovered evidence that, with
reasonable diligence, could not have
been discovered in time to move for a
new trial under RCFC 59(b);
(3) fraud (whether previously called intrinsic
or extrinsic), misrepresentation, or
misconduct by an opposing party;
(4) the judgment is void;
(5) the judgment has been satisfied, released,
or discharged; it is based on an earlier
judgment that has been reversed or
vacated; or applying it prospectively is
no longer equitable; or
(6) any other reason that justifies relief.
(c) Timing and Effect of the Motion.
(1) Timing. A motion under RCFC 60(b)
must be made within a reasonable time—
and for reasons (1), (2), and (3) no more
than a year after the entry of the judgment
or order or the date of the proceeding.
(2) Effect on Finality. The motion does not
affect the judgment’s finality or suspend
its operation.
(d) Other Powers to Grant Relief. This rule
does not limit a court’s power to:
(1) entertain an independent action to relieve
a party from a judgment, order, or
proceeding;
(2) [not used]; or
(3) set aside a judgment for fraud on the
court.
(e) Bills and Writs Abolished. The following
are abolished: bills of review, bills in the
nature of bills of review, and writs of coram
nobis, coram vobis, and audita querela.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 61 is identical to FRCP 61.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 61 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 62
Stay of Proceedings to Enforce a

Judgment
(a) Automatic Stay. Except as provided in
RCFC 62(c) and (d), execution on a judgment
and proceedings to enforce it are stayed for
30 days after its entry, unless the court orders
otherwise.
(b) Stay by Bond or Other Security. At any
time after judgment is entered, a party may
obtain a stay by providing a bond or other
security. The stay takes effect when the court
approves the bond or other security and
remains in effect for the time specified in the
bond or other security.
(c) Stay of an Injunction, Receivership, or
Patent Accounting Order. Unless the court
orders otherwise, the following are not stayed
after being entered, even if an appeal is taken;
(1) an interlocutory or final judgment in an
action for an injunction or receivership;
or
(2) a judgment or order that directs an
accounting in an action for patent
infringement.
(d) Injunction Pending an Appeal. While an
appeal is pending from an interlocutory order
or final judgment that grants, continues,
modifies, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to
dissolve or modify an injunction, the court

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes in wording have been made to
more closely conform to FRCP 60. Necessary
differences were retained.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 60 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

RCFC 61 and 62

84

2019 Amendment
RCFC 62 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 62 that
became effective December 1, 2018.

may suspend, modify, restore, or grant an
injunction on terms for bond or other terms
that secure the opposing party’s rights.
(e) Stay Without Bond on an Appeal by the
United States, Its Officers, or Its Agencies.
The court must not require a bond, obligation,
or other security from the appellant when
granting a stay on an appeal by the United
States, its officers, or its agencies or on an
appeal directed by a department of the federal
government.
(f) Stay in Favor of a Judgment Debtor Under
State Law. [Not used.]
(g) Appellate Court’s Power Not Limited.
This rule does not limit the power of the
appellate court or one of its judges or justices:
(1) to stay proceedings—or suspend,
modify, restore, or grant an injunction—
while an appeal is pending; or
(2) to issue an order to preserve the status
quo or the effectiveness of the judgment
to be entered.
(h) Stay with Multiple Claims or Parties. A
court may stay the enforcement of a final
judgment entered under RCFC 54(b) until it
enters a later judgment or judgments, and
may prescribe terms necessary to secure the
benefit of the stayed judgment for the party
in whose favor it was entered.

## RCFC 62.1
Indicative Ruling on Motion for

Relief That is Barred by a Pending
Appeal
(a) Relief Pending Appeal. If a timely motion is
made for relief that the court lacks authority
to grant because of an appeal that has been
docketed and is pending, the court may:
(1) defer considering the motion;
(2) deny the motion; or
(3) state either that it would grant the motion
if the court of appeals remands for that
purpose or that the motion raises a
substantial issue.
(b) Notice to the Court of Appeals. The movant
must promptly notify the circuit clerk under
Federal Circuit Rule 12.1 if the court states
that it would grant the motion or that the
motion raises a substantial issue.
(c) Proceedings on Remand. The court may
decide the motion if the court of appeals
remands for further proceedings.
(Added Jan. 11, 2010.)
Rules Committee Note
2010 Adoption
RCFC 62.1 has been added to correspond to
the adoption of the same rule in the FRCP that
became effective December 1, 2009.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010, July 1,
2019.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes have been made to
subdivision (a) to more closely conform to FRCP
62. Necessary differences were retained.

## RCFC 63
Judge’s Inability to Proceed

If a judge conducting a hearing or trial is unable
to proceed, any other judge may proceed upon
certifying familiarity with the record and
determining that the case may be completed
without prejudice to the parties. In a hearing or a
trial, the successor judge must, at a party’s
request, recall any witness whose testimony is
material and disputed and who is available to
testify again without undue burden. The
successor judge may also recall any other
witness.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 62 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
The time period of 10 days formerly set forth
in RCFC 62(a) has been changed to 14 days in
accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 62(a) that became effective December 1,
2009.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

85

RCFC 62.1 and 63

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Subdivisions (b) and (c) of the court’s prior
rule were deleted as unnecessary. The substance
of each of these former subdivisions is covered in
28 U.S.C. § 455 and in the Codes of Conduct for
Judges and Judicial Employees. RCFC 63 as
rewritten is essentially identical to FRCP 63.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 63 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

RCFC 63 cont.

86

(3) Expediting the Preliminary-Injunction
Hearing. If the order is issued without
notice, the motion for a preliminary
injunction must be set for hearing at the
earliest possible time, taking precedence
over all other matters except hearings on
older matters of the same character. At
the hearing, the party who obtained the
order must proceed with the motion; if
the party does not, the court must
dissolve the order.
(4) Motion to Dissolve. On 2 days’ notice to
the party who obtained the order without
notice—or on shorter notice set by the
court—the adverse party may appear and
move to dissolve or modify the order.
The court must then hear and decide the
motion as promptly as justice requires.
(c) Security. The court may issue a preliminary
injunction or a temporary restraining order
only if the movant gives security in an
amount that the court considers proper to pay
the costs and damages sustained by any party
found to have been wrongfully enjoined or
restrained. The United States, its officers, and
its agencies are not required to give security.
(d) Contents and Scope of Every Injunction
and Restraining Order.
(1) Contents. Every order granting an
injunction and every restraining order
must:
(A) state the reasons why it issued;
(B) state its terms specifically; and
(C) describe in reasonable detail—and
not by referring to the complaint or
other document—the act or acts
restrained or required.
(2) Persons Bound. The order binds only the
following who receive actual notice of it
by personal service or otherwise:
(A) the parties;
(B) the parties’ officers, agents, servants,
employees, and attorneys; and
(C) other persons who are in active
concert or participation with anyone
described in RCFC 65(d)(2)(A) or
(B).
(e) Other Laws Not Modified. These rules do
not modify the following:
(1) any federal statute relating to temporary
restraining orders or preliminary

TITLE VIII. PROVISIONAL AND FINAL
REMEDIES

## RCFC 64
Seizing a Person or Property [Not

used.]

## RCFC 65
Injunctions and Restraining Orders

(a) Preliminary Injunction.
(1) Notice. The court may issue a
preliminary injunction only on notice to
the adverse party.
(2) Consolidating the Hearing with the
Trial on the Merits. Before or after
beginning the hearing on a motion for a
preliminary injunction, the court may
advance the trial on the merits and
consolidate it with the hearing. Even
when consolidation is not ordered,
evidence that is received on the motion
and that would be admissible at trial
becomes part of the trial record and need
not be repeated at trial.
(b) Temporary Restraining Order.
(1) Issuing Without Notice. The court may
issue a temporary restraining order
without written or oral notice to the
adverse party or its attorney only if:
(A) specific facts in an affidavit or a
verified complaint clearly show that
immediate and irreparable injury,
loss, or damage will result to the
movant before the adverse party can
be heard in opposition; and
(B) the movant’s attorney certifies in
writing any efforts made to give
notice and the reasons why it should
not be required.
(2) Contents; Expiration. Every temporary
restraining order issued without notice
must state the date and hour it was issued;
describe the injury and state why it is
irreparable; state why the order was
issued without notice; and be promptly
filed in the clerk’s office and entered in
the record. The order expires at the time
after entry—not to exceed 14 days—that
the court sets, unless before that time the
court, for good cause, extends it for a like
period or the adverse party consents to a
longer extension. The reasons for an
extension must be entered in the record.
87

RCFC 64 and 65

from the Secretary of the Treasury. (See the
latest U.S. Dep’t of Treasury Circular 570.)
When a court decision provides for the giving
of security, and the security to be given is a
bond, the clerk will furnish counsel with the
appropriate bond form.

injunctions in actions affecting employer
and employee;
(2) [not used]; or
(3) [not used].
(f) Copyright Impoundment. [Not used.]
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 1, 2019.)

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Minor changes have been made to
subdivision (b) to more closely conform to its
FRCP counterpart. Additionally, former
subdivision (f), titled “Procedures,” has been
relocated to Appendix C. (Appendix C
supersedes former General Order No. 38, dated
May 7, 1998, which described the court’s
standard practices in procurement protest cases
filed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1491(b).)

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision*
Subdivision (a) is identical to FRCP 65.1
except for the omission of language extending the
rule’s coverage to “the Supplemental Rules for
Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims.”
Subdivision (b), titled “Sureties,” although
unique to this court, provides information useful
to the court’s practitioners and therefore was
retained.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 65 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

*As corrected November 15, 2007.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 65.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

2010 Amendment
The time period of 10 days formerly set forth
in RCFC 65(b)(2) has been changed to 14 days in
accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 65(b)(2) that became effective December
1, 2009.

2019 Amendment
RCFC 65.1 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 65.1
that became effective December 1, 2018.

## RCFC 65.1
Proceedings Against a Security

Provider
(a) Proceedings. Whenever these rules require
or allow a party to give security, and security
is given with one or more security providers,
each provider submits to the court’s
jurisdiction and irrevocably appoints the
court clerk as its agent for receiving service
of any papers that affect its liability on the
security. The security provider’s liability
may be enforced on motion without an
independent action. The motion and any
notice that the court orders may be served on
the court clerk, who must promptly send a
copy of each to every security provider
whose address is known.
(b) Acceptable Security Providers. Acceptable
security providers include those bonding
companies holding certificates of authority
RCFC 65.1, 66, 67 and 68

## RCFC 66
Receivers [Not used.]



## RCFC 67
Deposit into Court [Not used.]



## RCFC 68
Offer of Judgment

(a) Making an Offer; Judgment on an
Accepted Offer. At least 14 days before the
date set for trial, a party defending against a
claim may serve on an opposing party an
offer to allow judgment on specified terms,
with the costs then accrued. If, within 14 days
after being served, the opposing party serves
written notice accepting the offer, either party
may then file the offer and notice of
acceptance, plus proof of service. The clerk
must then enter judgment.
(b) Unaccepted Offer. An unaccepted offer is
considered withdrawn, but it does not
88

(Added Nov. 3, 2008.)

preclude a later offer. Evidence of an
unaccepted offer is not admissible except in a
proceeding to determine costs.
(c) Offer After Liability Is Determined. When
one party’s liability to another has been
determined but the extent of liability remains
to be determined by further proceedings, the
party held liable may make an offer of
judgment. It must be served within a
reasonable time—but at least 14 days—
before the date set for a hearing to determine
the extent of liability.
(d) Paying Costs After an Unaccepted Offer.
If the judgment that the offeree finally
obtains is not more favorable than the
unaccepted offer, the offeree must pay the
costs incurred after the offer was made.

Rules Committee Note
2008 Adoption
RCFC 71 has been adopted to conform to the
FRCP and to confirm the court’s authority to
issue orders enforceable for or against a nonparty,
a circumstance that typically arises in conjunction
with the issuance of a subpoena.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Jan. 11, 2010.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
A minor change in wording has been made to
more closely conform to FRCP 68.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 68 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
RCFC 68 has been amended in accordance
with the corresponding changes to FRCP 68 that
became effective December 1, 2009, (i) directing
that the time for service of an offer of judgment
be measured from the date set for trial or hearing
rather than from the date the trial or hearing is
expected to begin; and (ii) extending the time
periods of 10 days to 14 days.

## RCFC 69
Execution [Not used.]



## RCFC 70
Enforcing a Judgment for a Specific

Act [Not used.]

## RCFC 71
Enforcing Relief For or Against a

Nonparty
When an order grants relief for a nonparty or may
be enforced against a nonparty, the procedure for
enforcing the order is the same as for a party.

89

RCFC 69, 70 and 71

TITLE IX.

SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS

## RCFC 71.1
Condemning Real or Personal

Property [Not used.]

## RCFC 72
Magistrate Judges: Pretrial Order

[Not used.]

## RCFC 73
Magistrate Judges: Trial by

Consent; Appeal [Not used.]
Rules Committee Note
2002 Revision
Chapter IX of the FRCP, titled “Special
Proceedings,” (comprising FRCP 71A–73) has
not been included in the main body of the court’s
rules. Instead, rules relating to the court’s special
proceedings appear in the appendices to the rules.
2008 Amendment
Former RCFC 71A has been redesignated as
RCFC 71.1 in accordance with the FRCP.

## RCFC 74
Method of Appeal From Magistrate

Judge to District Judge Under Title
28 U.S.C. § 636(c)(4) and Rule 73(d)
[Abrogated in FRCP.]

## RCFC 75
Proceedings On Appeal From

Magistrate Judge to District Judge
Under Rule 73(d) [Abrogated in
FRCP.]

## RCFC 76
Judgment of the District Judge on

the Appeal Under Rule 73(d) and
Costs [Abrogated in FRCP.]

RCFC 71.1, 72, 73, 74, 75 and 76

90

TITLE X.

AND
CLERK:
COURT
CONDUCTING
BUSINESS;
ISSUING ORDERS

notice of the entry, as provided in RCFC
5(b), on each party who is not in default
for failing to appear. The clerk must
record the service on the docket. A party
also may serve notice of the entry as
provided in RCFC 5(b).
(2) Time to Appeal Not Affected by Lack of
Notice. Lack of notice of the entry does
not affect the time for appeal or relieve—
or authorize the court to relieve—a party
for failing to appeal within the time
allowed, except as allowed by Federal
Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(a).

## RCFC 77
Conducting Business; Clerk’s

Authority; Notice of an Order or
Judgment
(a) When Court Is Open. The court is
considered always open for filing any paper,
issuing and returning process, making a
motion, or entering an order.
(b) Place for Trial and Other Proceedings.
(1) In General. Every trial on the merits
must be conducted in open court and, so
far as convenient, in a regular courtroom.
Any other act or proceeding may be done
or conducted by a judge in chambers,
without the attendance of the clerk or
other court official, or at any other place
designated by order.
(2) A Trial or Hearing in a Foreign
Country. On motion or on the judge’s
own initiative, and upon a determination
by the judge to whom the case is assigned
that the interests of economy, efficiency,
and justice will be served, the chief judge
may issue an order authorizing the judge
to conduct proceedings, including
evidentiary hearings and trials, in a
foreign country whose laws do not
prohibit such proceedings.
(c) Clerk’s Office Hours; Clerk’s Orders.
(1) Hours. The clerk’s office—with a clerk
or deputy on duty—must be open during
business hours every day except
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
But the court may by order require that
the office be open for specified hours on
Saturday or a particular legal holiday
other than one listed in RCFC 6(a)(6).
(2) Orders. Subject to the court’s power to
suspend, alter, or rescind the clerk’s
action for good cause, the clerk may:
(A) issue process;
(B) enter a default;
(C) [not used]; and
(D) act on any other matter that does not
require the court’s action.
(d) Serving Notice of an Order or Judgment.
(1) Service. Immediately after entering an
order or judgment, the clerk must serve

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 3, 2015, Aug. 2,
2021.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
To more closely parallel the structure and
content of FRCP 77, RCFC 77 has been modified
as follows:
Former subdivisions (a) (referring to the
court’s “Name”), (b) (referring to the court’s
“Seal”), (d) (captioned “Citations”), and (e)
(identifying the court’s judicial power as being
exercisable by a single judge, except in
congressional reference cases), have been deleted
as unnecessary.
Subdivision (b) (formerly subdivision (h) of
this rule) has been changed in two respects. First,
in order better to reflect its content, the
subdivision has been retitled to read “Trials and
Hearings; Proceedings in Chambers” (in lieu of
“Trials and Hearings; Orders in Chambers”).
Second, the subdivision has been divided into
paragraphs (1) and (2). Paragraph (1), captioned
“Proceedings Generally,” retains the rule’s earlier
language; paragraph (2), captioned “Trials or
Hearings in Foreign Countries,” has been added
to recognize the court’s authority under 28 U.S.C.
§ 798(b) to conduct trials or hearings in foreign
countries.
Former subdivision (f), titled “Assignment of
Cases,” was renumbered as RCFC 40.1.
Former subdivision (g), titled “Signing of
Orders for Absent Judges,” was renumbered as
RCFC 77.2(b).

91

RCFC 77

(1) In General. Court fees are prescribed by
the Judicial Conference of the United
States pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1926(a), as
adjusted in the case of the fee for
admission in accordance with RCFC
83.1(a)(1)(D).
(2) Fee Schedule. A copy of the applicable
schedule of fees is available on the
court’s
website
at
www.uscfc.uscourts.gov or may be
obtained by contacting the Office of the
Clerk of the United States Court of
Federal Claims, 717 Madison Place, NW,
Washington, DC 20439.
(3) Method of Payment. Fees for services
rendered by the clerk must be paid in
advance; all checks should be made
payable to “Clerk, United States Court of
Federal Claims.”

Former subdivisions (l) and (k), titled,
respectively, “Scheduling Courtrooms” and “Fee
Schedule,” were renumbered as RCFC 77.1.
Finally, former subdivision (m) was deleted
in order to recognize the right of certain court
employees to participate in pro bono legal work
under the guidelines prescribed for that purpose
by the Codes of Conduct for Judicial Employees.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 77 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2015 Amendment
Rule 77(c)(1) has been amended in
accordance with the corresponding change to
FRCP 77(c)(1) that became effective December
1, 2014.
2021 Amendment
RCFC 77(c)(2)(C), providing that the clerk
may enter a default judgment under RCFC
55(b)(1), has been amended to reflect “not used,”
consistent with RCFC 55(b)(1), which provides
that the parallel provision of the FRCP is not
used.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Mar. 15, 2005, Aug. 2, 2005, Nov. 3,
2008, Aug. 1, 2016.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Former RCFC 77.1 was deleted in its
entirety. Current RCFC 77.1 reflects portions of
the text of former subdivision (c) as well as
subdivisions (h) and (i) of RCFC 77.

## RCFC 77.1
Business Hours, Scheduling, and

Court Fees
(a) Business Hours. The clerk’s office is open to
the public from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the
Eastern Time Zone on business days. A night
box is provided for filing with the clerk’s
office between 4:30 p.m. and 12:00 midnight
on any business day for any paper due that
day. The night box is located inside the gate
at the garage entrance on H Street. Counsel
are advised to telephone the clerk's office,
(202) 357-6406, by 9:30 a.m. the following
business day to confirm receipt.
(b) Scheduling. The clerk will schedule the use
of courtrooms in Washington, DC, and will
be responsible for all arrangements for
courtrooms and other facilities required by
the court at locations outside Washington,
DC. All conferences, oral arguments, trials,
and other recorded court proceedings will be
scheduled by the assigned judge by filing an
order with the clerk.
(c) Court Fees.

RCFC 77.1

2005 Amendments
Subdivision (c)(2) has been revised to
conform more precisely to 28 U.S.C. § 1926(a)
which provides that “[t]he Judicial Conference of
the United States shall prescribe from time to
time the fees and costs to be charged and
collected in the United States Court of Federal
Claims.” This authorization for the Judicial
Conference to prescribe fees for the court has a
counterpart in 28 U.S.C. § 1914 which pertains to
fees for district courts. Ordinarily, the Judicial
Conference amends the fee schedules for both
district courts and this court at the same time. In
addition, subdivision (c)(2) recognizes the court’s
authority to include as an additional admission
fee the amount provided for in RCFC 83.1(b)(4).
Currently applicable fee schedules are obtainable
on the court’s website and through a variety of
other published sources.

92

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 77.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 77.2 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

2016 Amendment
RCFC 77.1(a) has been amended to reflect a
change in the court’s public business hours—
from 8:45 a.m. to 5:15 p.m. to 8:30 a.m. to 4:30
p.m. Subdivision (a) has also been amended to
reflect a change in the telephone number for the
clerk’s office.

## RCFC 77.3
Chief Judge Vacancy

(a) In General. To ensure continuity of court
operations when a vacancy arises in the chief
judge’s position and the President has not yet
exercised the authority to designate a
successor under 28 U.S.C. § 171(b), the
powers and duties assigned to the chief judge
will be exercised on a temporary, emergency
basis as follows:
(1) by the judge in regular active service who
is senior in commission of those judges
who:
(A) are 69 years of age or less;
(B) have served for one year or more as
a judge; and
(C) have not served previously as chief
judge;
(2) in the event that no judge meets the age
qualification set forth in paragraph (a)(1)
above, by the youngest judge in regular
active service who:
(A) is 70 years of age or more;
(B) has served for one year or more as a
judge; and
(C) has not served previously as chief
judge; or
(3) in the event that no judge in regular
active service has served for one year or
more, by the judge in regular active
service who:
(A) is senior in commission; and
(B) has not served previously as chief
judge.
(b) Scope. The authority granted by this rule
expires immediately upon the President’s
designation of a chief judge pursuant to 28
U.S.C. § 171(b).

## RCFC 77.2
Authorization to Act on Certain

Motions
(a) Authority of the Clerk. The clerk may act
on any motion for an enlargement of time to
answer or respond to a complaint or for
substitution of counsel if:
(1) the motion states that opposing counsel
has no objection;
(2) no opposition to the motion has been
timely filed; or
(3) opposing counsel files a consent.
The clerk may not allow enlargements that
exceed 60 days in total.
(b) Signing an Order for an Absent Judge. If
an order is required and the assigned judge is
unavailable, an order may be presented to the
chief judge or to another judge designated by
the assigned judge for signature.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 77.2 has no FRCP counterpart. The
rule has been changed in several respects. First,
former subdivisions (a) and (b) were combined
into a new subdivision (a). Second, language in
former subdivision (a) relating to the “permanent
withdrawal of papers” was deleted to reflect
corresponding changes in RCFC 77.3 that abolish
the practice of permitting the withdrawal of
papers from the clerk’s office. Third, former
subdivisions (c) and (d) were deleted as
unnecessary. Finally, new subdivision (b) reflects
text transferred from former subdivision (g) of
RCFC 77.

(Added July 1, 2019.)
Rules Committee Notes
2019 Adoption
In accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 171(b), the
President has the authority to designate one of the
active judges of the court who is less than 70
years of age to serve as chief judge. The statute
93

RCRC 77.2 and 77.3

any paper or exhibit filed under seal, whether
in paper or electronic form, either:
(1) 5 years after the entry of final judgment
by this court; or
(2) in the event of an appeal, 5 years after the
receipt and filing of a mandate or other
process or certificate showing disposition
of the case by the appellate court.

does not, however, address who is to perform the
duties of the chief judge when a vacancy arises in
that office and the President has not yet exercised
the authority to appoint a new chief judge under
28 U.S.C. § 171(b). RCFC 77.3 has been adopted
to address these concerns by following, with
appropriate modifications, the order of
precedence for the designation of a chief judge
that is applicable to the district courts as
prescribed by 28 U.S.C. § 136(a)(1), (2).

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, July 13,
2009; as renumbered July 1, 2019, July 27, 2026.)

## RCFC 77.4
Withdrawing, Disposing of, and

Unsealing Papers and Exhibits
(a) Withdrawing Papers and Exhibits.
(1) In General. A paper or exhibit filed with
the court may not be withdrawn from the
office or custody of the clerk except by
order of the court, but such an order
should be entered only in extraordinary
circumstances. Any withdrawal of a
paper or exhibit pursuant to a court order
must be recorded through an appropriate
docket entry.
(2) During Trial. The court reporter engaged
to transcribe a trial proceeding may
temporarily withdraw any paper or
exhibit for use during that proceeding.
All papers and exhibits admitted into
evidence or designated to accompany the
transcript of the proceeding must remain
in the reporter’s custody until the
transcript is filed with the clerk.
(b) Disposing of Physical Exhibits. All
physical, non-electronic trial exhibits—
including models, diagrams, tables, charts,
and papers—will be destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the clerk unless they are
removed from the clerk’s custody by the
party who produced them either:
(1) within 60 days after the entry of final
judgment by this court; or
(2) in the event of an appeal, within 90 days
after the receipt and filing of a mandate
or other process or certificate showing a
final disposition of the case by the
appellate court.
(c) Unsealing Papers and Exhibits. Unless
otherwise required by statute or order and
absent a timely objection by any party, the
clerk, upon notice to the parties, may unseal

RCFC 77.4

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 77.3 has no FRCP counterpart. The
rule has been amended in several respects:
First, former subdivision (a) was deleted,
thereby eliminating the practice of permitting
temporary withdrawal of exhibits and papers by
the parties. The need to accommodate the
copying of extensive parts of a record shall be
addressed directly through arrangements made by
the clerk.
Subdivision (a), formerly subdivision (b),
was amended to clarify that the reporter is to
retain custody of the transcript and exhibits until
they are filed with the clerk.
New subdivision (b), formerly subdivision
(c), clarifies that no withdrawal of papers or
exhibits from the clerk’s office may occur in the
absence of a court order, and then only in
extraordinary circumstances. The fact of
withdrawal shall be preserved in the court’s
docketing entries.
New subdivision (c), formerly subdivision
(d), was rewritten to clarify the practice with
respect to the disposition of physical exhibits and
to make clear the parties’ obligation to retrieve
such exhibits, to avoid their loss through routine
disposal. The reference to in camera materials
was omitted, because such materials are not filed
with the clerk’s office.
New subdivision (d) establishes a procedure
for handling materials filed under seal, requiring
the parties affirmatively to indicate a desire to
maintain filings in closed cases under seal.
2007 Amendment
Subdivision (d) of RCFC 77.3 has been
amended by substituting the introductory words
94

consecutive file numbers, which must be
noted in the docket where the first entry
of the action is made.
(2) Items to be Entered. The following items
must be marked with the file number and
entered chronologically in the docket:
(A) papers filed with the clerk;
(B) process issued, and proofs of service
or other returns showing execution;
and
(C) appearances, orders, verdicts, and
judgments.
(3) Contents of Entries. Each entry must
briefly show the nature of the paper filed
or writ issued, the substance of each
proof of service or other return, and the
substance and date of entry of each order
and judgment.
(b) Civil Judgments and Orders. The clerk
must keep a copy of every final judgment and
appealable order; of every order affecting
title to or a lien on real or personal property;
and of any other order that the court directs to
be kept. The clerk must keep these in the form
and manner prescribed by the Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States
Courts with the approval of the Judicial
Conference of the United States.
(c) Indexes; Calendars. Under the court’s
direction, the clerk must:
(1) keep indexes of the docket and of the
judgments and orders described in RCFC
79(b); and
(2) prepare calendars of all actions ready for
trial.
(d) Other Records. The clerk must keep any
other records required by the Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States
Courts with the approval of the Judicial
Conference of the United States.

“unless otherwise required by statute or order” in
place of the former text “unless otherwise
specified by order.” The amendment is intended
to recognize that under certain statutes, materials
originally filed under seal must be maintained
under seal in perpetuity. See, e.g., National
Childhood Vaccine Injury Act, 42 U.S.C. §
300aa-12(d)(4)(A).
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 77.3 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.
2009 Amendment
The last sentence of subdivision (a)(1) has
been amended to clarify that the withdrawal of a
paper or exhibit filed with the clerk must be
recorded through an appropriate docket entry.
Further, as an historical note, we add that the
current structure of RCFC 77.3 relates back to the
restyling of the rule in 2008 when former
subdivisions (a) and (b) were combined into the
new subdivision (a) and the remaining
subdivisions renumbered as subdivisions (b) and
(c).
2019 Amendment
RCFC 77.4 formerly appeared in these rules
as RCFC 77.3 and has been renumbered to
accommodate the logical placement of new
RCFC 77.3 (“Chief Judge Vacancy”), adopted
July 1, 2019.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 77.4 has been amended to clarify that
the rule’s requirements extend to all filings,
whether in paper or electronic form.

## RCFC 78
Hearing Motions; Submission on

Briefs [Not used.]

## RCFC 79
Records Kept by the Clerk

(a) Civil Docket.
(1) In General. The clerk must keep a record
known as the “civil docket” in the form
and manner prescribed by the Director of
the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts with the approval of the
Judicial Conference of the United States.
The clerk must enter each civil action in
the docket. Actions must be assigned

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
The word “civil” has been added to
subdivision (a) to more closely conform to FRCP
79. RCFC 79 as it now reads is essentially
identical to FRCP 79.

95

RCFC 78 and 79

(b) Official Record.
(1) Transcript. When a transcript is filed, the
transcript is the official record of the
proceeding.
(2) Recording. If no transcript is filed, the
electronic sound recording is the official
record of the proceeding.
(c) Transcripts.
(1) Costs. A transcript will be prepared at
such charges as may be fixed or approved
by the court.
(2) Form; Contents. A transcript must
comply with the form, content, and style
requirements established by the court
(available on the court’s website at
www.uscfc.uscourts.gov).
(3) Filing. If a transcript is requested by a
party or by the court, the court reporter
must file the transcript of the proceeding
within the time period specified by the
court.
(4) Motion to Correct. If a party seeks to
correct a transcript, the party must file a
motion identifying those portions of the
transcript to be corrected.
(5) Motion to Seal. Except in a proceeding
sealed pursuant to RCFC 26(c) or
Appendix C or J to these rules, a party
must move the court to seal all or
portions of a proceeding.
(6) Electronic Access. Except in a
proceeding sealed pursuant to RCFC
26(c), Appendix C or J to these rules, or
RCFC 80.1(c)(5), the court must provide
electronic access to a transcript. Prior to
being made electronically available,
however, the transcript must conform to
RCFC 5.2.
(A) Availability. Once a transcript is
filed with the court, the transcript
will be available at the clerk’s office,
for inspection only, for a period of 90
days (unless extended by the court).
(B) Redaction of Personal Identifiers.
(i) The parties must review the
transcript to redact personal
information covered by RCFC
5.2. The redactions are subject to
the procedures specified in the
court’s transcript redaction
policy (available on the court’s

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 79 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 80
Transcript or Recording as Evidence

If testimony reported at a hearing or trial is
admissible in evidence at a later trial, the
testimony may be proved by a transcript or
recording certified by the person who reported it
or by any other method authorized by the court
(see Appendix of Forms, Forms 3B and 3C).
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 15, 2007, Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 30,
2013.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Former subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) were
deleted and minor changes have been made to
former subdivision (d) in order to more closely
conform to FRCP 80.
2007 Amendment
RCFC 80, which previously limited
certification of a trial record to “the person who
reported the testimony,” has been expanded to
include certification “by any other method
authorized by the court.” This expansion
addresses the certification requirement in cases
where testimony at a trial or hearing is recorded
electronically under court supervision without
reporter assistance.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 80 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.
2013 Amendment
RCFC 80 has been amended to reflect the
changes adopted in RCFC 80.1.

## RCFC 80.1
Court Reporters

(a) In General. Trial proceedings will be
recorded and, upon request of a party or the
court, will be transcribed by a court reporter
provided by the court who will be under the
jurisdiction and control of the assigned judge.

RCFC 80 and 80.1

96

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Aug. 2, 2005, Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 30,
2013, Aug. 1, 2016, Aug. 1, 2017, July 27, 2026.)

at
website
www.uscfc.uscourts.gov).
(ii) Pursuant to the court’s transcript
redaction policy, a Notice of
Intent to Request Redaction and
a Transcript Redaction Request
must be filed (see Appendix of
Forms, Forms 3D and 3E).
(C) Additional Redactions. In addition
to the redaction of personal
information, a party may move the
court for additional redactions
before a transcript is made
electronically available.
(d) Exhibits.
(1) Labeling. Unless the court otherwise
directs the parties to designate their
exhibits, the court reporter must label
each exhibit with:
(A) the title and docket number of the
case;
(B) the exhibit number;
(C) the party offering the exhibit,
whether plaintiff, defendant, or any
other party; and
(D) the number of pages in each exhibit.
(2) Submission. The court reporter must
submit the exhibits admitted into
evidence or designated to accompany the
record of the proceeding at the
conclusion of the proceeding as directed
by the court.
(e) Indexes. The court reporter must file an
index listing each witness testifying and each
exhibit offered and received into evidence in
accordance with the requirements established
by the court (available on the court’s website
at www.uscfc.uscourts.gov).
(f) Certifications.
(1) Transcript. The court reporter must sign
and append to the transcript a certificate
certifying that the record is a correct
transcript of the proceeding. See
Appendix of Forms, Form 3C.
(2) Recording. The court reporter must
certify the recordings and notes reported
at the proceeding. See Appendix of
Forms, Form 3B.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 80.1 has no FRCP counterpart. The
rule’s principal text formerly appeared in these
rules as Appendix A. The incorporation of former
Appendix A into the main body of the rules
reflects a more logical placement of its subject
matter in the organizational structure of the
court’s rules. Additionally, as part of this rule’s
relocation, Forms A and B of former Appendix A
(pertaining to reporter certifications) were
assigned to the new Appendix of Forms. They
appear there as Forms 3A and 3B.
Other changes introduced in this rule include
the following:
Subdivision (a) formerly appeared in these
rules as paragraph (b)(1) of RCFC 39. The
changes introduced in new subdivision (a) were
deemed necessary in order to eliminate
uncertainty as to the court’s authority to furnish a
reporter for trials scheduled outside of the United
States.
Subdivision (b) formerly appeared as
paragraph (b)(2) of RCFC 39.
Subdivision (i) formerly appeared as
paragraph (b)(3) of RCFC 39. Additionally,
subdivision (i) reflects the change in the court’s
name.
2005 Amendment
Subdivision (d) has been amended to specify
that the reporter shall show on each page of a trial
transcript the name of the witness being
questioned and the name of the examining
counsel. This change is intended to aid both
counsel and the court in working with transcripts
during post-trial proceedings, especially where
trials have been lengthy.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 80.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

97

RCFC 80.1 cont.

2013 Amendment
RCFC 80.1 has been amended to allow a
transcript or an electronic sound recording to
serve as the official record of a trial proceeding.
A new RCFC 80.1(b) (“Official Record”) has
been added to clarify what constitutes the official
record of a proceeding.
Former RCFC 80.1(b) (“Transcripts”) has
been renumbered as subdivision (c) and amended
to provide (i) that costs for a transcript will be
fixed or approved by the court; (ii) that a
transcript must be prepared in accordance with
the form, content, and style requirements
specified by the court; and (iii) that the court
reporter must file the transcript, when one is
requested, within the time period specified by the
court. The language that formerly appeared in this
subdivision addressing a transcript’s form and
content requirements has been stricken as
unnecessary and the requirement for filing
indexes has been included in renumbered RCFC
80.1(e) (“Indexes”).
Former RCFC 80.1(c) (“Exhibits”) has been
renumbered as subdivision (d) and amended to
include the requirement that the court reporter
must submit exhibits at the conclusion of the trial
proceeding as directed by the court.
The requirement for filing transcripts and
exhibits contained in former RCFC 80.1(d) has
been included in renumbered RCFC 80.1(c) and
(d), respectively.
Finally,
former
RCFC
80.1(e)
(“Certifications”) has been renumbered as
subdivision (f) and amended to clarify that
certification is required for both the recording of
the proceeding and any later prepared transcript.

New paragraph (4) also references the court’s
transcript redaction policy which sets forth the
procedures for redacting personal identifiers and
requires that a Notice of Intent to Request
Redaction and a Transcript Redaction Request be
filed (see Appendix of Forms, Forms 3D and 3E).
2017 Amendment
RCFC 80.1(c) has been amended to
distinguish between a request to correct a
transcript, a request to seal all or portions of a
transcript, and a request to redact personal
identifiers or additional information from a
transcript before it is made electronically
available.
2026 Amendment
RCFC 80.1(c)(5) and (c)(6) have been
amended to include as exceptions to the
provisions therein proceedings sealed pursuant to
Appendix C and Appendix J to these rules.

2016 Amendment
RCFC 80.1(c) has been amended by adding a
new paragraph (4) to include the requirement that
the court must provide electronic access to
transcripts of proceedings, other than those
proceedings that are sealed pursuant to RCFC
26(c). New paragraph (4) also adds the
requirement that prior to being made
electronically available, transcripts must be
reviewed to redact personal information covered
by RCFC 5.2 and clarifies that any additional
requests for redactions must be made by motion
to the court.

RCFC 80.1 cont.

98

TITLE XI.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 83 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

## RCFC 81
Applicability of the Rules in

General; Removed Actions [Not
used.]

## RCFC 83.1
Attorneys

(a) Eligibility to Practice.
(1) As a Member of the Bar of this Court.
(A) In General. Any person of good
moral character who is a member in
good standing of the bar of the
highest court of any U.S. state,
territory, or possession or the District
of Columbia may be admitted to
practice as a member of the bar of
this court.
(B) Procedures for Admission. A person
may be admitted to practice as a
member of the bar of this court by
oral motion or by verified
application.
(i) By Oral Motion in an
Admissions Proceeding. A
member of the bar of this court
may make an oral motion to
admit an applicant to the bar
during the monthly attorney
admissions proceeding held at
the Howard T. Markey National
Courts Building, 717 Madison
Place, NW, Washington, DC
20439, at the times posted on the
court’s
website
at
www.uscfc.uscourts.gov
(generally on Thursday of the
first full week in every month).
Motions will be heard in a
courtroom posted in the lobby of
the courthouse on the day of the
proceeding. Applicants for
admission must check in with the
clerk’s office no later than 30
minutes before the start of the
proceeding. At least one week in
advance of the proceeding,
applicants
must
submit
electronically the following:
(I) a “Form for Admission via
Motion in Open Court”
(available on the court’s
website);

## RCFC 82
Jurisdiction and Venue Unaffected

[Not used.]

## RCFC 83
Rules by Court of Federal Claims;

Judge’s Directives
(a) In General. After giving public notice and an
opportunity for comment, the United States
Court of Federal Claims, acting by a majority
of its judges, may adopt and amend rules
governing its practice. Such rules, to the
extent permitted by this court’s jurisdiction,
must be consistent with the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure and must conform to any
uniform numbering system prescribed by the
Judicial Conference of the United States. A
rule takes effect on the date specified by the
court and remains in effect unless amended
by the court. Copies of rules and amendments
must, on their adoption, be furnished to the
Administrative Office of the United States
Courts and be made available to the public.
(b) Procedure When There Is No Controlling
Law. A judge may regulate practice in any
manner consistent with federal law or rules
adopted under 28 U.S.C. § 2072 or 2503(b).
No sanction or other disadvantage may be
imposed for noncompliance with any
requirement not in federal law, federal rules,
or these rules unless the alleged violator has
been furnished in the particular case with
actual notice of the requirement.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 83 is modeled after FRCP 83. The rule
recognizes the court’s rule-making authority as
set forth at 28 U.S.C. § 2503, as well as the
assigned judge’s authority to regulate practice in
an individual case, so long as that practice is
consistent with federal law and rules.

99

RCFC 81, 82, 83 and 83.1

(II) a certificate of the clerk of
the highest court of any U.S.
state, territory, or possession
or the District of Columbia
which has been issued
within the last 30 days and
states that the applicant is a
member in good standing of
the bar of such court; and
(III) payment of the admission
fee set forth in RCFC
83.1(a)(1)(D);
Applicants who for special reasons
are unable to appear for admission on
one of the posted dates should
contact the clerk’s office to make
alternate arrangements.
(ii) By Verified Application. A
person may seek admission to
practice as a member of the bar
of this court without appearing in
person
by
submitting
electronically the following:
(I) a verified application for
admission (see Appendix of
Forms, Form 1);
(II) a certificate of the clerk of
the highest court of any U.S.
state, territory, or possession
or the District of Columbia
which has been issued
within the last 30 days and
states that the applicant is a
member in good standing of
the bar of such court;
(III) a letter or signed statement
of a member of the bar of
this court or of the Supreme
Court of the United States,
not related to the applicant,
affirming that the applicant
is personally known to him
or her, that the applicant
possesses all of the
qualifications required for
admission to the bar of this
court, that he or she has
examined the application,
and that the applicant’s
personal and professional

RCFC 83.1 cont.

character and standing are
good;
(IV) an oath in the form
prescribed
in
RCFC
83.1(a)(1)(C) signed by the
applicant and administered
by an officer authorized to
administer oaths in the U.S.
territory,
or
state,
possession or the District of
Columbia where the oath is
given, or as permitted by 28
U.S.C. § 1746; and
(V) payment of the admission
fee set forth in RCFC
83.1(a)(1)(D).
(C) Oath. An applicant for admission to
practice as a member of the bar of
this court must take the following
oath, to be administered by the
presiding judge or by the clerk:
I, _______, do solemnly swear
(or affirm) that I will support the
Constitution of the United States
and that I will conduct myself in
an upright manner as an attorney
of this court.
(D) Fee. Unless the applicant is
employed by this court or is
representing the United States before
this court, the applicant must pay the
admission fee in accordance with the
fee schedule posted on the court’s
website at www.uscfc.uscourts.gov.
The admission fee includes $100.00
above the amount prescribed by the
Judicial Conference of the United
States pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §
1926(a). The clerk will deposit this
additional sum in a fund to be used
by the court for the benefit of the
members of the bench and the bar in
the administration of justice.
(E) Notice to the Court. A person
admitted to practice as a member of
the bar of this court must notify the
clerk within 30 days of:
(i) any change in the person’s
address; and
(ii) any change in the status of the
person’s membership in the bar
100

bench and the bar in the
administration of justice.
(D) Notice to the Court. A person
admitted to appear pro hac vice must
notify the clerk within 30 days of:
(i) any change in the person’s
contact information; and
(ii) any change in the status of the
peron’s membership in the bar of
the jurisdiction upon which the
attorney’s
pro
hac
vice
admission is based.
(3) Foreign Attorneys.
(A) In General. Any person qualified to
practice in the highest court of any
foreign nation may be specially
admitted to practice before this court
but only for purposes limited to a
particular case; such person may not
serve as the sole attorney of record.
(B) Procedures for Admission. A person
seeking to appear as a foreign
attorney on behalf of any party must
file a motion signed by an attorney of
record for that party who is a member
of the bar of this court at least 7 days
prior to the court’s consideration of
the motion. In the case of such an
admission, an oath and fee are not
required.
(4) Pro Se Litigants. Except as otherwise
provided by statute, persons who are not
attorneys may represent themselves but
may not represent a corporation, an
entity, or any other person in any
proceeding before this court. The terms
counsel, attorney, and attorney of record
include such persons appearing pro se.
(b) Attorney of Record.
(1) In General. A person who is a member
in good standing of the bar of this court,
or a person who is authorized to practice
before this court under RCFC 83.1(a)(2)
or (a)(3), may appear, sign and file
papers, and otherwise practice in this
court as an attorney of record on behalf
of a party. Except for a pro se litigant
appearing under RCFC 83.1(a)(4), a
party must be represented by at least one
attorney of record (not a firm).

of the jurisdiction upon which
the person’s admission to the bar
of this court is based. If the clerk
receives notice that, for reasons
not listed in RCFC 83.2, a person
has withdrawn, resigned, or
retired from such jurisdiction,
failed to renew his or her
admission to such jurisdiction, or
is otherwise ineligible to practice
law in such jurisdiction, the clerk
will strike the person’s name
from the roll of members of the
bar of this court.
(2) Appearing Pro Hac Vice
(A) In General. Any person who is a
member in good standing of the bar
of the highest court of any U.S. state,
territory, or possession or the District
of Columbia may, upon leave of
court, appear pro hac vice on behalf
of a party in a particular case. A
person admitted to appear pro hac
vice is within the disciplinary
jurisdiction of this court.
(B) Procedure for Admission. A person
seeking to appear pro hac vice on
behalf of any party must file a motion
signed by an attorney of record for
that party who is a member of the bar
of this court, accompanied by a
declaration by the nonmember that
sets forth:
(i) the full name of the person;
(ii) the person’s address, e-mail
address, and telephone number;
and
(iii) a statement that the person is a
member in good standing of the
bar of the highest court of a U.S.
state, territory, possession or the
District of Columbia, with such
court being identified.
(C) Fee. An order of the court granting a
motion to appear pro hac vice must
require the nonmember to pay an
admission fee of $75.00, unless the
court waives the fee for good cause
shown. The clerk will deposit this
sum in a fund to be used by the court
for the benefit of the members of the
101

RCFC 83.1 cont.

(2) Entering an Appearance.
(A) Timing and Form. Except as
otherwise set forth in this rule, each
attorney appearing on behalf of a
party must promptly file a notice of
appearance before the attorney’s first
appearance or filing in the case. The
notice of appearance must be signed
and filed by the attorney and provide
the attorney’s name, address, e-mail
address, telephone number, and the
name of the party or parties
represented. An attorney who files
the initial pleading or paper on behalf
of a party other than the United
States need not file a separate notice
of appearance; that attorney will be
deemed to have entered a notice of
appearance on behalf of the party or
parties on whose behalf the initial
filing is made.
(B) Lead Attorney. One attorney of
record for each party must be
designated in the court’s electronicfiling system as lead attorney. The
lead attorney will bear principal
responsibility for the conduct of the
case on behalf of that party.
(C) Changes in Contact Information.
An attorney of record must promptly
file a notice of any change in the
attorney’s contact information.
(D) Effect of Appearance. An attorney’s
notice of appearance on behalf of a
party, or a motion under RCFC
83.1(a)(2) or (a)(3), constitutes a
representation that the attorney is
authorized to act and speak for the
party for all purposes incident to the
matter in which the appearance is
filed.
(3) Substituting Counsel.
(A) By Parties Other than the United
States.
(i) In General. Any party other than
the United States may seek leave
of court to substitute its lead
attorney at any time by filing a
motion signed by the party or by
the newly designated attorney

RCFC 83.1 cont.

along with an affidavit of
appointment by such attorney.
(I) With the Consent of the
Previous Attorney. If the
previous attorney’s consent
is annexed to or indicated in
the motion, the clerk will
automatically enter the
substitution on the docket.
(II) Without the Consent of the
Previous Attorney. If the
motion is filed without the
consent of the previous
attorney,
the
previous
attorney must be served with
the motion and will have 14
days to show cause why the
motion should not be
allowed.
(ii) Death of the Previous Attorney.
In the event of the death of the
lead attorney, the party must
promptly notify the court and
move to substitute another
attorney.
(B) By the United States. The United
States may substitute its lead
attorney at any time by filing a notice
of substitution of counsel signed by
the newly designated attorney. If the
former lead attorney is no longer
appearing in the case, the notice of
substitution must also include a
notice of withdrawal of the
attorney’s appearance.
(4) Withdrawing Counsel.
(A) In General. An attorney of record for
a party may withdraw that attorney’s
appearance by filing a notice of
withdrawal signed by the attorney. A
lead attorney may not withdraw that
attorney’s appearance except by
leave of court on motion.
(B) Service. In the case of an attorney of
record for a party other than the
United States, a notice of withdrawal
or a motion to withdraw may be filed
only after notice is served on the
attorney’s client.
(c) Honorary Bar Membership. Upon
nomination by the chief judge and with the
102

2006 Amendment
Subdivision 83.1(b)(2)(A) (Admission to
Practice Upon Oral Motion) has been amended to
provide some flexibility respecting when motions
for admission to practice will be heard upon oral
motion.

approval of the other judges, the court may
present an honorary membership in the bar of
this court to a distinguished professional of
the United States or of another nation who is
knowledgeable in the affairs of law and
government in his or her respective country.
The candidate for honorary membership will
be presented at the bar in person and will
receive a certificate of honorary bar
membership.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 83.1 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.
2010 Amendment
RCFC 83.1 has been amended to restate the
qualifications for admission to practice before the
court (paragraph (b)(1)) and the procedures for
admission, whether by oral motion or by verified
application (paragraph (b)(2)). Specifically,
admission to the highest court of any U.S. state,
territory, or possession or the District of
Columbia will be recognized as the only
acceptable qualification for admission to practice
before this court and confirmation of an
applicant’s admission status will require
submission of a current certificate of good
standing prepared by the clerk of such court.
In addition, the time period of 3 days
formerly set forth in RCFC 83.1(b)(5)(B) has
been changed to 7 days in accordance with the
FRCP’s general guidelines for time computation
that became effective December 1, 2009.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Aug. 2, 2005, June 20, 2006, Nov. 3,
2008, Jan. 11, 2010, July 15, 2011, July 1, 2019,
Aug. 3, 2020, July 28, 2025, July 27, 2026.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 83.1 has no FRCP counterpart. Former
RCFC 83.1, titled “Content of Briefs or
Memoranda; Length of Briefs or Memoranda,”
has been renumbered as RCFC 5.2. The
renumbering of RCFC 83.1 was intended to
reflect its more logical placement in the
organizational structure of this court’s rules.
The substance of the rule reflects the text of
former RCFC 81, as modified. Paragraph (2) of
subdivision (c) (formerly paragraph (d)(2) of
RCFC 81) was amended to formalize the court’s
practice of allowing joint filings to be signed by
one counsel, on behalf of both counsel, when
authorized to do so by opposing counsel. Also,
subdivision (e) of former RCFC 81 (relating to
attorneys’ fees and expenses) was not retained as
part of this rule but was, instead, incorporated
into RCFC 54(d)(2).
In addition, former General Order No. 15,
titled “Honorary Bar Membership,” was slightly
modified and moved to new subdivision 83.1(d).

2011 Amendment
RCFC 83.1(a) has been amended to clarify
that eligibility to practice before this court
requires that an attorney be a member in good
standing of the bar of the highest court of any
U.S. state, territory, or possession or the District
of Columbia as well as a member in good
standing of this court’s own bar.
In addition, subdivision (b) has been
amended by adding a new paragraph (5) requiring
an attorney admitted to practice before this court
to provide the clerk with timely notice of any
change in the attorney’s address and any change
in the status of the attorney’s membership in the
bar of the jurisdiction upon which the attorney’s
admission to the bar of this court was based. To
accommodate the addition of new paragraph (5),
former paragraph (5) (“Foreign Attorneys”) has
been renumbered as paragraph (6).

2005 Amendment
RCFC 83.1(b)(4) (Fee for Admission) has
been amended to set forth the practice, under
guidelines approved by the Judicial Conference
of the United States, of adding an amount to the
admission fee set pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1926(a)
for deposit into a fund to be used by the court for
the benefit of the members of the bench and the
bar in the administration of justice.

103

RCFC 83.1 cont.

seeking to appear pro hac vice and to make clear
that attorneys appearing pro hac vice may, with
the assigned judge’s approval, appear on behalf
of a party in an indefinite number of case-specific
proceedings.
RCFC 83.1(a)(4) has been amended by
removing the phrase “or a member of one’s
immediate family” to align with the requirements
of 28 U.S.C. § 1654 (“parties may plead and
conduct their own cases personally or by
counsel”).
Finally, RCFC 83.1(b) has been amended to
allow more than one attorney to appear, sign and
file papers, and practice in this court as an
attorney of record on behalf of a party.
Corresponding changes to the procedures for
entering an appearance, substituting counsel, and
withdrawing an appearance have also been made.

Finally, subparagraphs (c)(3)(A) and (B)
have been amended to require the inclusion of an
electronic mail address by the attorney of record
for any party.
2019 Amendment
RCFC 83.1(c)(3)(A) and (B) have been
amended to eliminate the references to facsimile
number.
2020 Amendment
RCFC 83.1(a)(2)(B) has been amended to
clarify that the attorney of record for any party
may request, either orally or by written motion,
that an attorney be permitted to participate pro
hac vice.
RCFC 83.1(b) has been amended to reflect
that applications for admission to practice before
the court are submitted electronically. Item
(b)(2)(A)(ii) (“By Oral Motion in a Proceeding
Outside Washington, DC”) has also been deleted
as unnecessary.
In addition, RCFC 83.1(b)(5) has been
amended to require that an attorney notify the
clerk within 30 days of any change in the
attorney’s address and of any change in the status
of the attorney’s membership in the bar of the
jurisdiction upon which the attorney’s admission
to the bar of this court is based.
Finally, RCFC 83.1(b)(5)(B) has been
expanded to authorize the clerk to automatically
strike an attorney’s name from the roll of
members of the bar of this court if the clerk
receives notice that, for reasons not listed in
RCFC 83.2, the attorney has been ineligible to
practice law in the jurisdiction upon which the
attorney’s admission to the bar of this court is
based.

2026 Amendment
RCFC 83.1(b)(2) has been amended to clarify
that an attorney entering an appearance in a case
must file and sign the notice of appearance.
RCFC 83.1(b)(3) has been amended to clarify
that if the United States is substituting its lead
attorney and also withdrawing the appearance of
the former lead attorney, the notice of substitution
must so state.

## RCFC 83.2
Attorney Discipline

(a) In General. The United States Court of
Federal Claims, in furtherance of its inherent
power and responsibility to supervise the
conduct of attorneys who are admitted to
practice before it, promulgates the following
rule for attorney discipline.
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this rule, the
following definitions apply:
(1) Another Court. Another court is defined
as any court of the United States, the
District of Columbia, or any U.S. state,
territory, possession, or commonwealth.
(2) Serious Crime. A serious crime is
defined as:
(A) any felony; or
(B) any lesser crime whose necessary
elements, as determined by the
statutory or common law definition
of the crime in the jurisdiction where
the conviction occurred, include:

2025 Amendment
RCFC 83.1 has been reorganized to include
former subdivision (b) (“Admission to Practice”)
as part of subdivision (a) (“Eligibility to
Practice”). In addition, new RCFC 83.1(a)(1)(B)
has been amended to require only one letter or
signed statement of a member of the bar of this
court or of the Supreme Court of the United States
when applying for admission by verified
application.
RCFC 83.1(a)(2) has been amended to
impose additional requirements on attorneys
RCFC 83.2

104

(2) Sanctions Under Other Provisions.
Assessment of damages, costs, expenses,
or attorney fees under RCFC 11, 16, 37,
or 45, 28 U.S.C. § 1927, or similar
statutory provisions are not disciplinary
sanctions within the meaning of this rule
and are not governed by this rule.
(e) Attorney’s Duty to Notify the Court of a
Conviction or Discipline Imposed by
Another Court.
(1) In General. An attorney admitted to
practice before this court must notify the
clerk in writing within 14 days of
issuance of an order establishing the
attorney’s:
(A) conviction by another court of a
serious crime;
(B) disbarment or suspension by another
court; or
(C) disbarment on consent or resignation
from the bar of another court while
an investigation into an allegation of
misconduct is pending.
(2) Contents
of
Notification.
The
notification must include:
(A) the name of the court imposing the
conviction or discipline;
(B) the date of the court’s action;
(C) the docket number;
(D) the offense committed;
(E) the discipline imposed; and
(F) the attorney’s current address.
(f) Standing Panel on Attorney Discipline.
(1) In General. All disciplinary matters will
be referred to a Standing Panel on
Attorney Discipline.
(2) Members.
(A) Appointment. The chief judge will
appoint three judges to the standing
panel to serve staggered three-year
terms, with the initial appointments
being for one-, two-, and three-year
terms
and
all
subsequent
appointments being for three-year
terms.
(B) Eligibility for Reappointment. A
judge who has served on the standing
panel for three years will not be
eligible for appointment to another
term until three years after the

with
the
(i) interference
administration of justice;
(ii) false swearing;
(iii) misrepresentation;
(iv) fraud;
(v) willful failure to file an income
tax return;
(vi) deceit;
(vii) bribery;
(viii) extortion;
(ix) misappropriation;
(x) theft; or
(xi) an attempt, conspiracy, or
solicitation of another to commit
a serious crime.
(c) Grounds for Discipline. An attorney
admitted to practice before this court,
including an attorney admitted to appear pro
hac vice pursuant to RCFC 83.1(a)(2), may
be disciplined under this rule on any of the
following grounds:
(1) the conviction by another court of a
serious crime as defined in RCFC
83.2(b)(1) and (2);
(2) an act, omission, or impairment that
results in the attorney’s disbarment or
suspension by another court;
(3) disbarment on consent or resignation
from the bar of another court while an
investigation into an allegation of
misconduct is pending;
(4) failure to comply with the terms of this
rule, including failure to notify the court
in accordance with RCFC 83.2(e); or
(5) any conduct before the court that is
unbecoming a member of the bar of this
court.
(d) Types of Discipline.
(1) In General. An attorney disciplined for
conduct identified in RCFC 83.2(c) may
be:
(A) disbarred from the court;
(B) suspended from practice before the
court;
(C) publicly or privately reprimanded;
(D) required to provide restitution or pay
monetary sanctions; or
(E) subjected to other such disciplinary
action as the circumstances may
warrant.

105

RCFC 83.2 cont.

warrant the imposition of any
discipline, the standing panel will
dismiss the matter without further
proceedings by issuing a final order.
(B) Upon receiving information from a
judge or special master of the court
pursuant to RCFC 83.2(g)(2), the
standing panel will immediately
open an investigation.
(4) Notifying the Attorney. When the
standing
panel
determines
an
investigation is warranted pursuant to
RCFC 83.2(g)(3), the clerk must provide
written notice of the complaint.
(5) Appointing Investigatory Counsel.
(A) In General. The standing panel may
appoint the court’s staff attorney or
other appropriate court personnel to
investigate
allegations
of
misconduct.
(B) Role of Investigatory Counsel. In
conducting
a
disciplinary
investigation, the investigatory
counsel may:
(i) review the complaint and any
relevant documents available at
the court or provided by the
complainant;
(ii) interview witnesses, including
the complainant and the attorney
subject to the proceeding;
(iii) provide to the standing panel, at
the panel’s request, a report
detailing
the
investigatory
counsel’s findings; and
(iv) take any additional steps that are
reasonably
necessary
to
effectuate the investigation.
(C) Outside Counsel. In addition to, or
as an alternative to, the procedure
described in subparagraphs (A) and
(B), at any stage of a proceeding the
standing panel may, in its discretion,
appoint
outside
counsel
to
investigate
and/or
prosecute
allegations of misconduct under this
rule.
(6) Dismissal; Show Cause Order.
(A) Dismissal. If the standing panel
concludes that the finding of the
investigation are insufficient to

termination of his or her last
appointment.
(C) Chairperson. The standing panel
will designate one of its members to
serve as the chairperson.
(3) Unavailability of a Standing Panel
Member.
(A) To Hear a Particular Matter. If a
member of the standing panel is
unable or unavailable to hear a
particular matter, the chief judge will
appoint another judge to be a
member of the panel for that matter.
(B) To Complete the Member’s Term. If
a member of the standing panel is
unable to complete the remainder of
his or her term, the chief judge will
appoint another judge to serve the
remainder of the term.
(g) Referrals, Investigations, and Disciplinary
Proceedings.
(1) Docketing. Consistent with RCFC
83.2(l), the clerk will maintain an
attorney disciplinary docket and will
assign a number to each matter at the
time of referral to the standing panel.
(2) Referring Matters to the Standing
Panel. The clerk must refer to the
standing panel:
(A) any information received from
another court concerning a member
of this court’s bar involving
disbarment, suspension, disbarment
on consent, or resignation from the
bar of another court while an
investigation into an allegation of
misconduct is pending; and
(B) any complaint regarding attorney
misconduct received from:
(i) a judge or special master of the
court; or
(ii) a member of the public.
(3) Review by the Standing Panel.
(A) Upon receiving information from
another court or a member of the
public pursuant to RCFC 83.2(g)(2),
the standing panel will review the
allegation and determine whether the
matter merits further investigation. If
the standing panel concludes that the
allegation on its face is insufficient to
RCFC 83.2 cont.

106

(8) Responding to a Show Cause Order.
Unless otherwise ordered, an attorney
must file any response to a show cause
order within 30 days after service of the
order. Any request for a hearing must be
included in the response.
(h) Proceedings Before the Standing Panel.
(1) Representation by Counsel. An attorney
may be represented by counsel in any
disciplinary proceeding before the
standing panel.
(2) Suspending an Attorney. The standing
panel will immediately suspend an
attorney from practicing before the court
upon notice that an attorney:
(A) has been convicted by another court
of a serious crime; or
(B) has been disbarred, suspended,
disbarred on consent, or resigned
from the bar of another court while
an investigation into an allegation of
misconduct is pending,
(3) Record of the Proceeding.
(A) Content. The record will consist of
the show cause order, the response to
the order, all evidentiary materials,
and all briefs submitted to or
considered by the standing panel or
the court.
(B) Withholding
Information.
Information will be withheld from an
attorney only in extraordinary
circumstances, e.g., for national
security or criminal investigation
purposes.
(C) Copying and Responding to
Documents. If the record includes
documents in addition to the show
cause order and the response, an
attorney must be given the
opportunity to inspect and copy the
additional documents at his or her
expense and, if the attorney contests
the charge but has not requested a
hearing, must be given the
opportunity to file a supplemental
response.
(4) Issuing a Final Order in an
Uncontested Matter. If an attorney does
not respond to a show cause order issued
pursuant to RCFC 83.2(g)(6) or does not

warrant
further
disciplinary
proceedings, the panel will dismiss
the matter by issuing a final order.
(B) Issuing and Serving a Show Cause
Order.
To
initiate
further
disciplinary
proceedings,
the
standing panel must:
(i) issue a show cause order
describing the attorney’s alleged
misconduct and directing the
attorney to show cause why a
specific discipline should not be
imposed or why a discipline to
be determined at a later date
should not be imposed; and
(ii) serve the order on the attorney in
accordance with RCFC 83.2(m).
(7) Presumed Discipline. Unless the
standing panel concludes that a different
discipline may be appropriate, the
following discipline is presumed to apply
and should be identified in the show
cause order:
(A) For Conviction by Another Court of
a Serious Crime. Disbarment is the
presumed
discipline
for
the
conviction by another court of a
serious crime.
(B) For Disbarment or Suspension by
Another
Court.
Reciprocal
disbarment or suspension is the
presumed discipline for an act,
omission, or impairment that results
in an attorney’s disbarment or
suspension by another court.
(C) For Disbarment on Consent or
Resignation From the Bar of
Another
Court.
Reciprocal
disbarment
is the presumed
discipline
for
an
attorney’s
disbarment on consent or resignation
from the bar of another court while
an investigation into an allegation of
misconduct is pending.
(D) For Conduct Unbecoming a
Member of the Bar of this Court.
There is no presumed discipline for
conduct that is unbecoming a
member of the bar of this court; the
standing panel will determine the
appropriate discipline.
107

RCFC 83.2 cont.

(6) Conducting a Hearing in a Contested
Matter.
(A) In General. If an attorney requests a
hearing in his or her response to a
show cause order or in a
supplemental response filed pursuant
to RCFC 83.2(h)(3)(C), the standing
panel will schedule a hearing and
will
determine
whether
the
submission of evidence, including
the calling of witnesses, is
appropriate.
(B) Notice of Hearing. An attorney must
be given at least 30 days’ notice of
the time, date, and place of the
hearing.
(C) Subpoena. The standing panel may
compel by subpoena:
(i) the attendance of witnesses,
including the attorney subject to
the proceeding; and
(ii) the production of documents.
(D) Cross-Examining Witnesses. The
attorney subject to the proceeding
must be afforded an opportunity to
cross-examine any witnesses called
before the standing panel and to
introduce evidence in defense or
mitigation.
(E) Recording. A hearing will be
digitally recorded unless an attorney
arranges to have a reporting service
present at his or her own expense.
(F) Post-Hearing Brief. The standing
panel may order the filing of a posthearing brief, which may include, at
the panel’s direction, either a
statement of facts or proposed
findings of fact. Post-hearing
briefing is not a matter of right.
(G) Issuing a Final Order. Following
the conclusion of the disciplinary
proceeding, the standing panel will
issue a final order.
(7) Reporting a Final Order. The standing
panel may:
(A) direct the attorney or the clerk to
send a copy of the final order to all
other courts before which the
attorney is admitted; and

object to the imposition of discipline, the
standing panel may issue a final order
imposing such discipline.
(5) Presumptions.
(A) For Conviction by Another Court of
a Serious Crime. When an attorney
has been convicted by another court
of a serious crime, the standing
panel:
(i) will treat the conviction as
conclusive evidence of the
commission of that crime,
whether the conviction resulted
from a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere or from a verdict
after trial or otherwise, and
regardless of the pendency of
any appeal; and
(ii) will limit further proceedings to
a determination of the final
discipline to be imposed.
(B) For
Disbarment,
Suspension,
Disbarment on Consent, or
Resignation From the Bar of
Another Court. The standing panel
will treat an attorney’s disbarment,
suspension, disbarment on consent,
or resignation from the bar of another
court while an investigation into an
allegation of misconduct is pending
as conclusive evidence that the
misconduct in fact occurred and that
the discipline was appropriate unless
the standing panel concludes that:
(i) the procedure was so lacking in
notice or an opportunity to be
heard that it constituted a
deprivation of due process;
(ii) there was such an infirmity of
proof
establishing
the
misconduct that this court could
not, consistent with its duty,
accept as final the conclusion on
the matter;
(iii) the imposition of the same
discipline by this court would
result in grave injustice; or
(iv) the misconduct established is
deemed to warrant substantially
different discipline.

RCFC 83.2 cont.

108

(B) direct the clerk to notify the National
Disciplinary Data Bank of the
discipline imposed.
(i) Disbarment
on
Consent
While
Disciplinary Proceeding Is Pending.
(1) In General. At an attorney’s request and
upon receipt of the affidavit required
under RCFC 83.2(i)(2), the standing
panel may cease any investigation or
proceeding being conducted under this
rule and may enter an order disbarring the
attorney on consent.
(2) Affidavit. To initiate a disbarment on
consent, an attorney must file an affidavit
stating that:
(A) the attorney is aware that an
investigation
or
proceeding
involving
allegations of the
attorney’s misconduct is currently
pending, along with a statement
setting forth the specifics of those
allegations;
(B) the attorney acknowledges that the
material facts so alleged are true;
(C) the attorney consents to disbarment;
(D) the attorney is freely and voluntarily
rendering consent, is not being
subjected to coercion or duress, and
is fully aware of the implications of
such consent; and
(E) the attorney consents to disbarment
because the attorney knows that if
charges were brought on the matters
under investigation, the attorney
could not present a successful
defense.
(j) Review of the Standing Panel’s Final
Order.
(1) A Petition for Rehearing.
(A) In General. An attorney may seek
review of the standing panel’s final
order either by:
(i) filing a petition for rehearing by
the standing panel; or
(ii) filing a combined petition for
rehearing by the standing panel
and suggestion for rehearing by
the active judges of the court.
(B) Contents. The petition must state
with particularity each point of law
or fact that the petitioner believes the

standing panel has overlooked or
misapprehended.
(C) Time for Filing. Any petition for
rehearing must be filed within 14
days after entry of the standing
panel’s final order.
(2) By Order of the Court. A majority of the
active judges may order that a
disciplinary matter be reheard by the
active judges of the court.
(3) Limitations on Rehearing by the Active
Judges of the Court. A rehearing by the
active judges of the court is not favored
and will generally not be ordered except
when necessary to secure or maintain
uniformity of the court’s decisions or
when the proceeding involves a question
of exceptional importance.
(k) Reinstatement.
(1) A Petition for Reinstatement.
(A) Contents.
A
petition
for
reinstatement must include:
(i) clear and convincing evidence
that the petitioner is a person of
good moral character and is in
good standing with the bar of the
highest court of any U.S. state,
territory or possession or the
District of Columbia;
(ii) clear and convincing evidence
that the petitioner’s resumption
of the practice of law will not be
detrimental to the integrity and
standing of the bar, to the
administration of justice, or to
the public interest; and
(iii) a certificate of good standing
from
the
disciplining
jurisdiction, if the petitioner
seeks reinstatement following
discipline in a reciprocal matter.
If a hearing is requested, such request
must be included in the petition.
(B) Time for Filing.
(i) After Conviction by Another
Court of a Serious Crime. If
disbarment by this court was
imposed based on an attorney’s
conviction by another court of a
serious crime, the attorney may
file a petition for reinstatement
109

RCFC 83.2 cont.

(C) Fees and Costs. The standing panel
may direct that the petitioner provide
an advance cost deposit in an amount
set by the panel to cover anticipated
costs
of
the
reinstatement
proceeding.
(2) Conducting a Hearing. The standing
panel will conduct a hearing on a petition
for reinstatement if:
(A) the petitioner requests such a
hearing; and
(B) the panel is not satisfied based on the
petition alone that reinstatement is
appropriate.
(3) Issuing a Final Order. The standing
panel will issue a final order, with or
without a hearing, either:
(A) denying
the
petition
for
reinstatement; or
(B) granting the petition if the panel
determines that the petitioner is fit to
resume the practice of law and
concludes, upon a showing of good
cause, that it would be in the interest
of justice to reinstate the petitioner.
(4) Conditions of Reinstatement.
(A) In General. Reinstatement may be
conditioned on the payment of all or
part of the costs of the reinstatement
proceeding and on the making of
partial or complete restitution to any
parties harmed by the conduct that
led to the petitioner’s suspension or
disbarment.
(B) For Disbarment or Suspension of
Five Years or More. If the petitioner
has been disbarred or suspended for
five years or more, reinstatement
may, in the discretion of the standing
panel, additionally be conditioned on
the furnishing of proof of
competency and learning in law,
including a certification by the bar
examiners of a state or other
jurisdiction of the petitioner’s
successful completion of an
examination for admission to
practice subsequent to the date of
disbarment or suspension.

only when the conviction is
vacated or reversed.
(ii) After
Disbarment
or
Suspension by Another Court.
If disbarment or suspension by
this
court
was
imposed
reciprocally based on an
attorney’s
disbarment
or
suspension by another court, the
attorney may file a petition for
reinstatement only when the
original discipline is lifted or
expires.
(iii) After Disbarment. An attorney
who has been disbarred as a
result of conduct that is
unbecoming a member of the bar
of this court may file a petition
for reinstatement any time after
the expiration of three years
from the effective date of the
disbarment.
(iv) After Suspension.
(I) When Reinstatement Is Not
Automatic. If the order
suspending an attorney for
conduct that is unbecoming
a member of the bar of this
court does not include an
automatic
right
of
reinstatement, such attorney
may file a petition for
reinstatement
after
the
suspension period expires.
(II) When Reinstatement Is
Automatic. If the original
suspension order directs that
reinstatement be automatic,
the standing panel will issue
an order reinstating the
attorney within 14 days after
receiving the attorney’s
affidavit of compliance with
the suspension order.
(v) Successive
Petitions.
An
attorney may not file a
successive
petition
for
reinstatement until the expiration
of at least one year from the date
of an adverse judgment on an
earlier petition.
RCFC 83.2 cont.

110

(l) Access to Information.
(1) Confidentiality
of
an
Ongoing
Disciplinary Proceeding. An ongoing
disciplinary proceeding must be kept
confidential unless:
(A) the attorney subject to the proceeding
requests that the proceeding,
including any hearing before the
standing panel and the record
compiled in the matter pursuant to
RCFC 83.2(h)(3), be open to the
public; or
(B) the standing panel determines that it
is appropriate to disclose the subject
matter and status of proceeding
where:
(i) the proceeding is based on the
conviction by another court of a
serious crime;
(ii) the proceeding is based on an
allegation that has become
generally known to the public; or
(iii) there is a need to notify a person
or entity to protect the public, the
legal
profession,
or
the
administration of justice.
(2) Confidentiality After Issuance of a
Final Order.
(A) When No Discipline or a Private
Reprimand Is Imposed. If the final
order imposes no discipline or
imposes a private reprimand, the
record of the proceeding compiled
pursuant to RCFC 83.2(h)(3) must be
kept confidential unless the attorney
subject to the proceeding requests
that it be made part of the public
record.
(B) When an Attorney Is Disbarred on
Consent. An order disbarring an
attorney on consent must be made
part of the public record, but the
affidavit required under RCFC
83.2(i)(2) may not be publicly
disclosed or made available for use
in any other proceeding except on
order of the standing panel.
(C) All Other Cases. If other discipline is
imposed, the final order and the
record of the proceeding must be
made part of the public record at the

time the final order is issued. The
standing panel may, however, issue a
permanent
protective
order
prohibiting the disclosure of any part
of the record to protect the interest of
a complainant, a witness, a third
party or nonparty, or the attorney
subject to the proceeding.
(m) Service.
(1) Show Cause Order. A show cause order
must be served in person or by registered
or certified mail addressed to the attorney
at the attorney’s last known address. If
service by registered or certified mail is
ineffective, the standing panel must enter
an order as appropriate to effect service.
(2) All Other Papers and Notices. Any other
paper or notice is served by mailing the
paper or notice to the attorney’s last
known address.
(n) Retention of Authority. Nothing contained
in this rule should be construed to deny an
individual judge the authority to maintain
control over court proceedings, such as
proceedings for contempt, issuance of public
reprimands, or the imposition of fines of not
more than $1,000.00.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, July 13, 2009, July 15,
2011, Aug. 3, 2015, Aug. 1, 2017, Aug. 3, 2020,
July 31, 2025.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
Former RCFC 83.2 has been renumbered as
RCFC 7.1. New RCFC 83.2 formerly appeared in
these rules as Appendix F. The incorporation of
former Appendix F into the main body of the
court’s rules reflects a more logical placement of
its subject matter in the organizational structure
of the court’s rules.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 83.2 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.
2009 Amendment
RCFC 83.2 has been rewritten in its entirety.
The new rule is intended to simplify the court’s
111

RCFC 83.2 cont.

does not include internal court communications.
Additionally, former RCFC 83.2(h)(5)(C)
(“Presumptions”) has been incorporated into new
paragraph (h)(5) in recognition of the fact that the
outlined presumptions apply more broadly than
only in the context of hearings in contested
matters.
RCFC 83.2(k)(1)(A) has been amended to
specify that in reciprocal cases, a petition for
reinstatement must include a certificate of good
standing from the disciplining jurisdiction.

procedures for the disposition of attorney
discipline matters by providing for the
appointment, by the chief judge, or a threemember standing panel of the court’s judges to
address all aspects of the disciplinary process,
from the investigation of charges, to the conduct
of hearings, to the determination of appropriate
discipline.
2011 Amendment
RCFC 83.2(g)(3) has been expanded to
include a subparagraph (C) authorizing the
standing panel “in the event the court staff
attorney or other appropriate court personnel is
recused” to appoint outside counsel to investigate
and/or prosecute allegations of misconduct.
In addition, subparagraph (h)(5)(E) has been
clarified by changing the phrase “witnesses called
by the standing panel” to read “witnesses called
before the standing panel.”

*As corrected November 28, 2016.
2017 Amendment
RCFC 83.2(e)(1) has been amended to clarify
that the 14-day deadline for notifying the court of
an attorney’s conviction, disbarment, or
suspension runs from the date of the court order
imposing discipline.
The title of RCFC 83.2(g) has been amended
to include the three distinct steps involved in an
attorney discipline matter: a referral to the
standing panel, an investigation by the standing
panel, and further disciplinary proceedings
conducted by the standing panel.
In addition, RCFC 83.2(g)(3)(A) and (B)
have been amended to distinguish between
disciplinary matters initiated in other courts or by
members of the public and matters initiated by a
judge or special master of the court.
Finally, RCFC 83.2(g)(6)(A) and (B) have
been amended to establish that the standing panel
has two options at the close of an investigation
conducted pursuant to RCFC 83.2(g)(5): dismiss
the matter or issue an order to show cause to
initiate further proceedings before the standing
panel.

2015 Amendment*
RCFC 83.2(e)(2) has been amended to
require that the attorney’s notification to the court
of a conviction or discipline include the
attorney’s current address.
RCFC 83.2(g)(1) has been amended to clarify
that the clerk will maintain a docket of a
disciplinary proceeding from the time of referral
to the standing panel.
A new RCFC 83.2(g)(3) has been added to
distinguish—in the timing of the standing panel’s
initiation
of
an
investigation—between
complaints arising outside the court and
complaints arising within the court. A new
paragraph (g)(4) has also been added to require
that the attorney receive written notice of the
complaint when the standing panel determines
that an investigation is warranted.
Former RCFC 83.2(g)(3)(C) has been
renumbered as subparagraph (g)(5)(C) and
amended to provide that as an alternative to
appointing a court staff attorney or other
appropriate court personnel, the standing panel
may appoint outside counsel to investigate and/or
prosecute allegations of misconduct.
Former RCFC 83.2(g)(7) has been deleted as
its substance has been incorporated into new
paragraph (g)(3).
RCFC 83.2(h)(3)(A) has been amended to
clarify that the record in a disciplinary proceeding
RCFC 83.2 cont.

2020 Amendment
RCFC 83.2(c)(2) and RCFC 83.2(g)(7)(B)
have been amended to clarify that suspensions
and disbarments on the basis of impairment are
grounds for reciprocal discipline in this court.
2025 Amendment
RCFC 83.2(a) and (c) have been amended to
conform to the changes to RCFC 83.1(a)(2).

112

(7) neither ask for nor receive any fee or
compensation of any kind from the client
on whose behalf service is rendered. This
rule does not, however, prevent a lawyer,
a legal aid bureau, a law school, or the
government from paying compensation
to an eligible law student or from making
such charges for their services as may
otherwise be proper, nor does it prevent
any clinical program from receiving
otherwise proper fees and expenses
under RCFC 54(d)(2).
(c) Scope of Appearance. A law student who
has entered an appearance in a case may:
(1) appear on the brief(s) and other written
pleadings filed with the court, provided
that the supervising attorney has read,
approved, and co-signed all such
documents;
(2) participate in all proceedings ordered by
a judge or special master, including the
taking of depositions, provided that the
supervising attorney is present at all such
proceedings;
(3) engage in all other activities on behalf of
the client in all ways that a licensed
attorney may, subject to the general
direction of the supervising attorney; and
(4) make a binding commitment on behalf of
the client provided that both the client
and the supervising attorney have
approved of such commitment.
(d) Supervising Attorney. A supervising
attorney under this rule will be deemed the
attorney of record pursuant to RCFC 83.1(b)
and must:
(1) be a member in good standing of the bar
of this court;
(2) be approved for such service by the dean
of the law school at which the law student
is enrolled;
(3) be certified by this court as a student
supervisor;
(4) assist and counsel the student in activities
allowed under this rule and review such
activities with the student, to the extent
appropriate under the circumstances, for
the proper practical training of the
student and the protection of the client;
(5) assist the student in the preparation of the
case to the extent the supervising

## RCFC 83.3
Legal Assistance by a Law Student

(a) In General. A law student qualified under
RCFC 83.3(b) may enter an appearance in
this court on behalf of any party in a case
provided that:
(1) the party on whose behalf the student
appears has consented in writing;
(2) a supervising attorney, as defined in
RCFC 83.3(d), has indicated approval in
writing; and
(3) the written consent and approval have
been filed with the clerk.
(b) Eligibility. To make an appearance under
this rule, a law student must:
(1) be a student in good standing at a law
school approved by the American Bar
Association;
(2) have completed legal studies amounting
to at least two semesters, or the
equivalent thereof if the school operates
on some basis other than a semester
basis;
(3) have knowledge of the Rules of the
United States Court of Federal Claims,
the Federal Rules of Evidence, and the
American Bar Association Model Rules
of Professional Conduct;
(4) be enrolled for credit in a clinical
program at an accredited law school that
maintains malpractice insurance for its
activities and conducts its activities
under the direction of a faculty member
of the law school;
(5) be certified by the dean of the law school
as being of good character and of
sufficient legal ability, and as being
adequately trained in accordance with
RCFC 83.3(b)(1)–(4) to fulfill the
responsibilities of a legal intern to both
the client and the court. Such
certification must be filed with the clerk
and may be withdrawn at any time by the
dean upon written notice to the clerk;
(6) be certified by the chief judge to practice
pursuant to this rule. Such certification
may be withdrawn at any time by the
chief judge or, in a given case, by the
judge or special master before whom the
law student has entered an appearance,
without notice of hearing and without
any showing of cause; and
113

RCFC 83.3

attorney considers necessary and be
available for consultation with the client;
(6) be present with the student in all
proceedings before a judge or special
master;
(7) co-sign all pleadings and other
documents filed with the court;
(8) supplement oral or written work of the
student as necessary to ensure proper
representation of the client;
(9) assume full professional responsibility
for any guidance relating to any work
undertaken by the student and for the
quality of the student’s work; and
(10) notify the dean of the law school at
which the student is enrolled of any
alleged failure on the part of the student
to abide by the letter and spirit of this
rule.
(e) Retention of Authority. Nothing in this rule
should be construed to prevent a judge from
establishing exceptions to the activities set
forth in RCFC 83.3(c), or from limiting a
student’s participation in a particular case.

practice areas. The chief judge will designate
one of these members as the chairperson and
will additionally appoint one or more of the
judges of the court as a liaison between the
court and the council.
(c) Organization. The council will meet at such
times and places as agreed to by its members.
(The chief judge will provide facilities at the
court to accommodate such meetings if
necessary.) All members of the council,
including the chief judge and the court’s
liaison judge[s], may attend meetings and
participate in discussions, but only council
members may vote on matters before the
council. Council members may designate
officers and committees and take any other
steps appropriate to conduct the council’s
business.
(d) Recommendations. The council may
transmit its recommendations to the court
informally or formally by letter to the chief
judge. The court may consider any
recommendation of the council and take such
action as the court deems appropriate.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Nov. 3, 2008, Aug. 3, 2015.)

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 83.3 replaces former General Order
No. 35, adopted on September 3, 1993. The only
changes are stylistic or correct cross-references.

Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
New RCFC 83.4 replaces General Order No.
7, which established the Advisory Council on
April 5, 1983. In addition to minor stylistic and
formatting changes, the new rule has increased
the number of members allowed on the Council
and makes the chief judge responsible for
designating the chairperson.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 83.3 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
the FRCP.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 83.4 has been
amended to conform to the general restyling of
FRCP.

## RCFC 83.4
Advisory Council

(a) In General. The United States Court of
Federal Claims Advisory Council will advise
the court on matters referred to it by the court
or deemed relevant by the council’s members
pertaining to the administration of the court
and the court’s relationship to the bar and to
the public.
(b) Membership. The council will consist of no
fewer than 20 members, appointed by the
chief judge to three-year terms, and must
include representatives of all of the court’s
RCFC 83.4

2015 Amendment
RCFC 83.4(b) has been amended to delete
the requirement limiting membership of the
court’s Advisory Council to members of the
court’s bar.

114

## RCFC 84
Forms [Abrogated in FRCP; retained

in RCFC.]
Forms referenced in these rules are set forth in the
Appendix of Forms.

addition, the rule adopts the practice of the FRCP
to presume application of rule changes to pending
cases.
Future revisions to these rules will be posted
o n t h e c o u r t ’ s w e b s i t e a t
https://www.cfc.uscourts.gov/.

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended Aug. 1, 2016.)

2006 Amendment
The second sentence of RCFC 86 has been
rewritten to clarify the rule’s essential purpose:
that amendments to the court’s rules apply to all
pending proceedings unless the application of
such amendments would not be feasible or would
work injustice.

Rules Committee Note
2002 Revision
RCFC 84 parallels in content its FRCP
counterpart.
2016 Amendment
The title of RCFC 84 has been amended to
reflect that its FRCP counterpart was abrogated,
effective December 1, 2015.

2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 86 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 85
Title

These rules may be cited as the Rules of the
United States Court of Federal Claims.

## RCFC 87
Rules Emergency

(a) Conditions for an Emergency. The chief
judge may declare a rules emergency if the
court
determines
that
extraordinary
circumstances relating to public health or
safety, or affecting physical or electronic
access to the court, substantially impair the
court’s ability to perform its functions in
compliance with these rules.
(b) Declaring an Emergency.
(1) Content. The declaration:
(A) [not used];
(B) adopts all the emergency rules in
RCFC 87(c) unless it excepts one or
more of them; and
(C) must be limited to a stated period of
no more than 90 days.
(2) Early Termination. The chief judge may
terminate the declaration before the
termination date.
(3) Additional Declarations. The chief
judge may issue additional declarations
under this rule.
(c) Emergency Rules.
(1) Emergency Rules 4(e), (h)(1), (i), and
(j)(2), and for serving a minor or
incompetent person. [Not used.]
(2) Emergency RCFC 6(b)(2).
(A) Extension of Time to File Certain
Motions. The court may, by order,
apply RCFC 6(b)(1)(A) to extend for
a period of no more than 30 days

(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002, as
amended Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 85 has been changed to reflect the
change in the court’s name.
2008 Amendment
The language of RCFC 85 has been amended
to conform to the general restyling of the FRCP.

## RCFC 86
Effective Date

These rules and any subsequent amendments are
applicable to all proceedings pending at the time
of the adoption of the revision or amendment or
thereafter filed, except to the extent that the court
determines that their application to a pending
action would not be feasible or would work
injustice, in which event the former procedure
applies.
(As revised and reissued May 1, 2002; as
amended June 20, 2006, Nov. 3, 2008.)
Rules Committee Notes
2002 Revision
RCFC 86 reflects the effective date of the
most recent revision to the court’s rules. In
115

RCFC 84, 85, 86 and 87

after entry of the order the time to act
under RCFC 52(b), 59(b), (d), and
(e), and 60(b).
(B) Effect on Time to Appeal. Unless the
time to appeal would otherwise be
longer:
(i) if the court denies an extension,
the time to file an appeal runs for
all parties from the date the order
denying the motion to extend is
entered;
(ii) if the court grants an extension, a
motion authorized by the court
and filed within the extended
period is, for purposes of Rule
4(a)(4)(A) of the Federal Rules
of Appellate Procedure, filed
“within the time allowed by”
these rules; and
(iii) if the court grants an extension
and no motion authorized by the
court is made within the
extended period, the time to file
an appeal runs for all parties
from the expiration of the
extended period.
(C) Declaration Ends. An act authorized
by an order under this emergency
rule may be completed under the
order
after
the
emergency
declaration ends.
(Added July 29, 2024.)
Rules Committee Note
2024 Adoption
New RCFC 87 has been added to correspond
to the adoption of the equivalent rule in the FRCP
that became effective December 1, 2023.

RCFC 87 cont.

116

APPENDIX A
CASE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE
I. PURPOSE
1. These case management procedures are
intended to promote cooperation among counsel,
assist in the early identification of issues,
minimize the cost and delay of litigation, and
enhance the potential for settlement. (As used in
this appendix, "counsel" shall be construed to
include unrepresented parties.)
2. Uniformity of practice within the court
also is an important goal of these procedures. For
the purpose of promoting the efficient
administration of justice, a judge may modify
these procedures as appropriate, or the parties
may suggest modification of these procedures to
meet the needs of a particular case.

should be conducted in phases or be
limited to or focused upon particular
issues;
(3) any issues relating to disclosure,
discovery,
or
preservation
of
electronically
stored
information,
including the form or forms in which it
should be produced;
(4) any issues relating to claims of
privilege or of protection as trialpreparation material, including—if the
parties agree on a procedure to assert
such claims after production—whether to
ask the court to include their agreement
in an order under Federal Rule of
Evidence 502;
(5) what changes should be made in
the limitations on discovery imposed
